Monday, 25 March 2013 
====================================

Trying to figure out how to handle errors... All messages, actually....

In my controller, I try to go to a page that doesn't exist. This should bring up a 404 error with some message text (eg, "Page doesNotExist was not found"). In some cases, I'll have custom errors. (eg, "Bad JSON string", etc.). I can just return empty objects, but I'd like to pass back something that indicates what went wrong.... Essentially, I'd like this:

    Return a 404 code in the header
    {"errors":["item doesNotExist was not found"]}
    {"errors":["vendor doesNotExist was not found for item 2"]}
    {"errors":["incorrectly formatted JSON string submitted","Unable to parse text"]}

On success, it's currently just passing back the data. This is probably OK for now, but in the future, I may want to have more control. I could see a case where I'm doing paging, and wanting to do something like this:

    {"data":[...several returned objects here...],
     "offset": 100,
     "limit": "20"}

Maybe there are better ways, though, and I'll come across them in due course.



Error Message Handling
-----------------------
From http://stackoverflow.com/questions/14455112/distinguish-between-validation-errors-in-laravel

Get an instance of a MessageBag object, that you can run through with a foreach loop:

    $messages = $validator->messages(); // Where $validator is your validator instance.
    $messages = $messages->all()

    foreach ($messages as $message) {
        print $message;
    }

You can also get error messages for a given attribute:

    $errors = $validation->errors->get('email');

and then loop through the errors

    foreach ($errors as $error) { print $error; }

or get all the error messages

    $errors = $validation->errors->all();

then loop through the error messages

    foreach ($errors as $error) { print $error; }




Tuesday, 25 March 2013 
======================================================

Trying to figure out how to mock the database layer. 

There's some code here:
http://net.tutsplus.com/tutorials/php/testing-like-a-boss-in-laravel-models/

I don't want to use a table, though, I just want it to be mocked, and to return the mock values.

Hmmmm... This seems to be beyond my capabilities right now. Let's keep moving in some other way.

Let's just use an in-memory table.

Created file app/config/database.php:

    <?php
     
    return array(
     
        'default' => 'sqlite',
        'connections' => array(
            'sqlite' => array(
                'driver'   => 'sqlite',
                'database' => ':memory:',
                'prefix'   => ''
            ),
        )
    );

In TestCase.php, I'm including this code:

    public function loadDatabase()
    {
        Artisan::call('migrate');
        $this->seed();        
    }

And, in ItemTest.php, I'm including this:

    public function testFindItem()
    {
        $this->loadDatabase();
        $item = new Item;

        // // var_dump($item);
        var_dump($item->find(1));
    }

It seems to be getting stuck in an infinite loop, though. :-(

Even when I pull everything directly into the ItemTest function...

Hmmm.... Might as well do something else for a little bit...

composer update
Now everything is broken...
git clone -b develop https://github.com/laravel/laravel.git
(pull the latest skeleton)

Copied files to my working branch...
And now the infinite loop is magically gone, and we're working again. Yay!

Can we search for parameters?
Where would we do that?

I'd like to change the find function to search (or could include a 'search' function). Basically, I want the model to be a black box where search parameters can be dropped, and results are returned.

When we do a search, it's case sensitive.

This will not get anything. It's putting in an "and" by default

    return parent::where('name','=','Pencils')
        ->where('sku', '=', '2383243XDF');

This will return both pencils and windex:

    return parent::where('name','=','Pencils')
        ->orWhere('sku', '=', '2383243XDF');

This will just return windex (because it's case sensitive):

    return parent::where('name','=','pencils')
        ->orWhere('sku', '=', '2383243XDF');

It is possible to do a case insensitive match, but a bit ugly...
http://forums.laravel.io/viewtopic.php?id=1935

    public function get_index()
    {
        $firstname = Str::lower(Input::get('first_name',''));
        $lastname = Str::lower(Input::get('last_name',''));
        $c = $u->contacts();  // Referencing the relationship...
        // $c->select('*'); // Drop this
        if($firstname){$c->where(DB::raw('lower(`first_name`)', '=', $firstname;}
        if($lastname){$c->where(DB::raw('lower(`last_name`)', '=', $lastname;}
    }



Wednesday, 26 March 2013 
======================================================

Updated laravel with the latest development commits.

    git clone -b develop https://github.com/laravel/laravel.git laravel4
    cp -r laravel4/* ../kdb_shopping/api/
    composer update

git status shows several files have been modified:

    modified:   app/config/database.php
    modified:   app/config/mail.php
    modified:   app/controllers/BaseController.php
    modified:   app/database/seeds/DatabaseSeeder.php
    modified:   app/models/User.php
    modified:   app/routes.php
    modified:   app/tests/TestCase.php
    modified:   composer.json
    modified:   phpunit.xml

Since my project is being tracked, and I was up-to-date before copying the new laravel skeleton, I can just do this:

    git reset --hard HEAD
    composer dump-autoload

phpunit is complaining, though, with a permission denied error. 

    sudo chown www-data app/storage/{cache,logs,meta,sessions,views}

Good to go.


Sublime Keymap
---------------

Changed my sublime keymap to this:

[
    { "keys": ["ctrl+shift+;"], "command": "run_macro_file", "args": {
            "file": "Packages/User/EOL_Semicolon.sublime-macro"
        } 
    },
    { "keys": ["ctrl+alt+n"], "command": "advanced_new_file"},
    { "keys": ["ctrl+shift+a"], "command": "select_all" },
    { "keys": ["ctrl+a"], "command": "move_to", "args": {"to": "bol", "extend": false} },
    { "keys": ["ctrl+e"], "command": "move_to", "args": {"to": "eol", "extend": false} }
]


Item
-------------

More testing for the Item object. If I use the 'like' operator, rather than '=', it's case insensitive. Yay! I was after that, anyway.

Here's my search function, which works nicely:

    public static function search($findWhat)
    {
        // If we were passed an integer, find the primary key
        if(is_numeric($findWhat)) {
            return parent::find($findWhat);            
        } 

        // search for submitted parameters
        $params = array();
        parse_str($findWhat, $params);
        $foundItems = parent::from('items');
        foreach($params as $key => $value) {
            $foundItems->where($key, 'like', '%'.$value.'%', 'and');
        }
        if (count($foundItems->get())==1) {
            return $foundItems->first();
        }
        return $foundItems->get();
    }

Next issue: If (manually, in the browser) I send a request to items?name=pencil, I get every item. If I use items/name=pencil, I just get the pencils. How do I include a query string? 

In the index function, I can look for input...

    public function index()
    {
        if (count(Input::all())==0)
            return $this->items->all();

        return $this->show(Input::all());
    }

Also, how do I automatically test for it?
If I use $this->get('items/name=pencil'), it throws an error:

    Symfony\Component\HttpKernel\Exception\NotFoundHttpException


