Monday, 1 April 2013 
============================================================

Learning a little bit more about git.

Configuration information is stored in these files:

    ~/.gitconfig          (global for user)
    project/.git/config   (local to project)

git add just adds changes (including in new files)

    git add .             (adds all files in directory)
    git commit -a         (stages all tracked files with modifications)
    git commit -m '<msg>' (commit everything with a comment; don't open editor)

Use a .gitignore file in a directory to ignore files and folders. List each type of file to be ignored. If you need to track specific files among ignored files, use a ! to disregard the ignore, and track those files:

    temp/*.txt              (ignore every .txt file in temp)
    !temp/important.txt     (track important.txt)

Parts of git:

    working directory       uncompressed files
    staging area (index)    lets you choose what to commit; good encapsulated messages
    git repository          

git diff is used to see changes that have been made over time.

    git diff              difference between working directory and staging area
    git diff --staged     shows difference between committed and staged
    git diff HEAD         difference between working dir and HEAD (repository)
    git diff <hash> <file>  changes to <file> since <commit hash>
    
git log shows a history of commits over time

    git log               basic history of commits over time
    git log --stat        includes statistics  (files changed, insertions/deletions)
    git log --oneline     Shows each commit on one line  (hash, title)
    git log --graph       Shows graph of the current branch
    git log --all         Shows changes to all branches
    git log --decorate    Shows which branch the commit points to
    git log --oneline --graph --all --decorate   shows one-line graph of all branches
    git log --pretty='x'  Shows log with formatted output (which can be used elsewhere)
                          (see http://git-scm.com/docs/git-log for params) Examples:
                            %h   abbreviated hash
                            %t   abbreviated tree hash
                            %an  author name
                            %ad  author date
                            %ar  author date (relative)
                            %cn  committer name
                            %s   subject (commit message)
    git log --grep='x'    Limit output to those with log message matching regex

    alias gl='git log --oneline --graph --all --decorate'
    
    
Branches
---------

Master branch is there by default. Work on new, experimental features in new branches. You can switch branches at any time. When you commit, it will commit to the active branch.

    git branch              shows list of branches
    git branch <name>       create a new branch
    git branch -d <name>    delete the named branch
    git checkout <name>     swich to the named branch
    git checkout -b <name>  create and switch to a new branch
    git merge <name>        merge the named branch with the active branch
    git rebase <name>       rewind HEAD to branch point, apply branch changes, 
                            then replay additional changes to HEAD
                            (makes the log linear, so it looks like there was no branching)

    git push -u origin <name>   Push latest commit from branch <name> to origin repository (github)
                                (create the origin repository if it doesn't already exist)
    


Tuesday, 2 April 2013 
============================================================

I think I want my tests to go off of controller actions, rather than URIs. This way, if the routes ever changed later, the tests would still work.

Instead of: 

    $response = $this->get('items/1');

use:

    $response = $this->action('GET', 'ItemsController@show', '1');



    
Wednesday, 3 April 2013 
============================================================

Yesterday, I tried again to figure out a way to test my models with unit tests, and no touching a database. I asked about it on the #laravel group, and got a bunch of answers, but I think they were all about mocking the models while testing controllers. And one link to using an in-memory database (which is what I'm currently using). 

Maybe I'm the first person to have this concept?

Basically, I want a db layer (like MySqlConnection, MySqlBuilder, MySqlGrammar, etc.) that I can use for tests, that never touches the disk. It should touch the disk, once, to read in the migrations and seeds, store the results of those in a static place that doesn't get modified by any tests, and then simply reload the data (from memory) when the next test happens. That way, all of the tests are fast.

Another way would be to just mock the db layer, and return the results that I'd expect from an actual database. Again, everything happening in memory, and very fast.

Here's what I've been trying (but none of these techniques have worked):

    // TODO: Figure out how to use an array instead of a database
    public function testSearchByRecordNumberAsArray()
    {
        $this->app->db->pretend(function(){
            return array('foo'=>'bar');
        });

        $item = new Item;
        $a = $item->something('a');
    }
   
    public function testSearchByRecordNumberAsArray1()
    {
        $mock = \Mockery::mock('Illuminate\Database\ConnectionInterface');
        $mock->shouldReceive('select')->Yesonce()->andReturn('foo');
        $app['db'] = $mock;
        $item = new Item;
        $a = $item->something('q');
    }
        
    public function testSearchByRecordNumberAsArray2()
    {
        $mock = \Mockery::mock('Illuminate\Database\ConnectionInterface');
        $mock->shouldReceive('select')->with(\Mockery::any(), array('*'))
            ->once()->andReturn('foo');
        App::instance('Illuminate\Database\ConnectionInterface', $mock);  
        DB::shouldReceive('select')->once()->andReturn('bar')      ;
        $this->assertEquals('bar', $item->search(1)->name, 'should find bar');
    }
        
    public function testSearchByRecordNumberAsArray3()
    {
        DB::shouldReceive('selectOne')->andReturn('bar');
        DB::shouldReceive('select')->once()->andReturn('foo');

        $this->assertEquals('foo', $item->search(1)->name, 'should find foo');
    }
    
    public function testSearchByRecordNumberAsArray4()
    {
        $mock = new EloquentModelFindStub;
        App::instance('Illuminate\Database\ConnectionInterface', $mock);
        $result = Item::find(1);
        $this->assertEquals('foo', $result);
    }

    public function testSearchByRecordNumberAsArray5()
    {
        $mock = new EloquentModelFindStub;
        App::instance('Illuminate\Database\Eloquent\Builder', $mock);
        $result = Item::find(1);
        $this->assertEquals('foo', $result);
    }
    
    class EloquentModelFindStub extends Illuminate\Database\Eloquent\Model {
        public function newQuery()
        {
            $mock = \Mockery::mock('Illuminate\Database\Eloquent\Builder');
            $mock->shouldReceive('find')->once()->with(1, array('*'))->andReturn('foo');
            return $mock;
        }
    }

        
Lots of different ways to try, basically, the same thing... Mocking out the database access layer, so I can run tests significantly faster.

For now, let's just forget about this. The in-memory database is a bit slow, but not terrible.

Note for future: My call stack looks like this:

    in C:\wamp\www\shopping\api\vendor\laravel\framework\src\Illuminate\Database\Connection.php line 494
    
    at Connection->handleQueryException(object(PDOException), 'select * from `items` where `smith` like ?', array('%4%')) in 
    C:\wamp\www\shopping\api\vendor\laravel\framework\src\Illuminate\Database\Connection.php line 467
    
    at Connection->run('select * from `items` where `smith` like ?', array('%4%'), object(Closure)) in C:\wamp\www\shopping\api\vendor\laravel\framework\src\Illuminate\Database\Connection.php line 261
    
    at Connection->select('select * from `items` where `smith` like ?', array('%4%')) in C:\wamp\www\shopping\api\vendor\laravel\framework\src\Illuminate\Database\Query\Builder.php line 880
    
    at Builder->get(array('*')) in C:\wamp\www\shopping\api\vendor\laravel\framework\src\Illuminate\Database\Eloquent\Builder.php line 207
    
    at Builder->getModels(array('*')) in C:\wamp\www\shopping\api\vendor\laravel\framework\src\Illuminate\Database\Eloquent\Builder.php line 96
    
    at Builder->get() in C:\wamp\www\shopping\api\app\models\Item.php line 70
    
    at Item->search('smith=4') in C:\wamp\www\shopping\api\app\models\repositories\EloquentItemRepository.php line 7
    
    at EloquentItemRepository->search('smith=4') in C:\wamp\www\shopping\api\app\controllers\ItemsController.php line 32
    
    at ItemsController->show('smith=4')

So, a fuller stack will look like this:

    ItemsController->show
    EloquentItemRepository->search
    Item->search
    Builder->get
    Builder->getModels
    Builder->get
    Connection->select
    Connection->run
    Connection->handleQueryException

Do I need to mock all of those objects?


Git
---

I feel like I'm making a horrible hash of git... I created a dev branch, and have been making changes to it both at home and in the office, and it's getting confusing. Here's the top of my git log:

    *   c6d0d57 (refs/stash) WIP on dev: e845463 Home 4/3 Item testing
    |\
    | * 898fce4 index on dev: e845463 Home 4/3 Item testing
    |/
    * e845463 (origin/dev, dev) Home 4/3 Item testing
    * f0f631f Revised unit tests
    * 899af05 (HEAD, origin/master, master) Home 3/31 Unit testing
    * 118c8be Office 3/29  Unit testing

Ummm... Right.

    git stash apply         applies the stash to the current index



Item Development
-----------------
Need to work on searching and validating for items.

There should be several different validation rules, based on the context of the validation. 


specic has a question that, by figuring out, I can help myself...

    I need to get the names of the columns in mySQL in my model and pass them to my view…. how can I accomplish this in Laravel 4?

    just use a raw query, select column_name,* from information_schema.columns where table_name = 'YourTableName' order by ordinal_position, and get the results.

This works for mysql, but not for sqlite:

        DB::select('select column_name from information_schema.columns where table_name="items";');




    
Thursday, 4 April 2013 
============================================================

I found out how to dump a query:

    var_dump(DB::getQueryLog());

It will produce things like this:

    array (size=1)
      0 => 
        array (size=3)
          'query' => string 'select * from `questions` where `qid` = ? limit 1' (length=49)
          'bindings' => 
            array (size=1)
              0 => int 4
          'time' => string '0.77' (length=4)


I also learned how to get additional data from a pivot table (eg, the M2M join table):

    class Item extends Eloquent
    {
        public function vendors()
        {
            return $this->belongsToMany('Vendor', 'item_vendors')
                ->withPivot(array('confirmed', 'last_known_price'));
        }
    }

We can get flat values from that with:

    function flatten(array $array) {
        $return = array();
        foreach ($array as $item) {
            $index = count($return);
            array_walk_recursive($item, function($v,$k) use (&$return, &$index) { 
                $return[$index][$k] = $v; 
            });
        }
        return $return;
    }

Laravel already has a flatten function, and a merge function, but I'm not really sure how to use them, yet. If I just try to run them, the merge function throws an error that:

    ErrorException: Warning: array_merge(): Argument #2 is not an array in 

The flatten function will run, but if I try to just return it, it throws an error:

    UnexpectedValueException: The Response content must be a string or object implementing __toString(), "array" given.

If I try to json_encode the flattened result, I get a json string that doesn't look anything like what I want. It just includes two values... the public values. There are protected values in an 'original' array that have what I want, but getOriginal doesn't work. I suspect that's because the outer level was converted to an array by the flatten() method.


Error Handling
---------------

Global error handling is done in start/global.php. 

    App::error(function(Symfony\Component\HttpKernel\Exception\HttpException $exception, $code)
    {
        Log::error($exception);

        $json = array('errors' => array($exception->getMessage()));
        return Response::json($json)->setStatusCode($exception->getStatusCode());
    });

