Monday, 15 April 2013 
===============================

Getting wamp to return text/html for files with no extension...

Create a .htaccess file in the folder:

    DefaultType text/html

I'm starting a new instance of laravel, with all of the latest stuff.
As soon as I open it, we get some issues:

    ( ! ) Warning: require(C:\wamp\www\active\lkata\vendor\patchwork\utf8\bootup.utf8.php): failed to open stream: Permission denied in C:\wamp\www\active\lkata\vendor\composer\autoload_real.php on line 42

    ( ! ) Fatal error: require(): Failed opening required 'C:\wamp\www\active\lkata\vendor/patchwork/utf8/bootup.utf8.php' (include_path='.;C:\php\pear') in C:\wamp\www\active\lkata\vendor\composer\autoload_real.php on line 42

The unit tester passes, though. Not sure what's up with that. Maybe I really do need selenium... (don't want to run it each time, though...)


I'm also not sure how to fix this error.

ahhh... the file didn't have the read flag for others...

    chmod -R go+r *

I set up this class to test for xdebug errors:

    class SeleniumTest extends PHPUnit_Extensions_Selenium2TestCase
    {
        public function __construct()
        {
            parent::__construct();
            $this->setBrowserUrl('http://lkata');
            $this->setBrowser('chrome');
            $this->setHost('localhost');
            $this->setPort(4444);
        }

        public function testHomePageDoesNotIncludeDebugError()
        {
            $this->assertEquals(0, 
                preg_match('/xdebug-error/i', $this->source()), 
                'should not return an xdebug error');
        }
    }

Everything in this class will be slow to run.
The Way generators don't seem to be working at the moment, also...
Maybe it's just the combined (resource) generator.

Todo App
------------

I'm working on a quick and easy todo application today, just to practice techniques. TDD development.

Copy basic folders; composer install
Set permissions for the storage folder
Enter the selenium test; it's working now
Create a migration
Create a seeder
Create a database
Start testing and coding

The symfony web crawler is cool. We can determine if we have a specific div class in a document, using:

    public function testSampleItemIsInAnItemDiv()
    {
        $crawler = $this->client->request('GET', '/');
        $this->assertGreaterThan(0, $crawler->filter('div.item')->count());
    }

We can get information for children in the DOM chain, with:

    $children = $crawler->filter('div.item')->first()->children();
    echo $children->filter('h4')->count();
    foreach($children as $child) {
        echo($child->tagName);
        echo($child->getAttribute('class'));
        echo($child->nodeValue);
    }

I wonder if it would be possible to put a facade in for a test model, so we can mock it nicely, 'cause the existing setup isn't pretty at all.




Tuesday, 16 April 2013 
===============================

Interesting... I'm getting a failure due to no tests found in TestCase. I had to declare it an abstract class. Same with Illuminate\Foundation\Testing\TestCase

When we get to the controller tests, I get confused.

I can instantiate a new controller, and test it, like this:

    public function testTodoControllerIndexReturnsView()
    {
        $c = new TodoController;
        $result = $c->index();
        $this->assertContains('View', get_class($result));
    }

That works well, but it stops working once I start including a __construct function in my controller. 

I can open it in another way like this:

    public function testTodoControllerIndexIncludesData()
    {
        $result = $this->action('GET', 'TodoController@index');
        $this->assertContains('Illuminate\View', get_class($result->original));
        $this->assertViewHas('items');
    }

I can get the data passed in with:

    $result->original->getData();

One problem that I'm having is determining if the controller is being hit, or if something else is taking over. For instance, if I try to go to this:

    $result = $this->action('GET', 'foo@bar');

I still get an OK result, and data returned, based on my home controller. I want to make sure that my controller is there, and that it's running, and anything else should return an error.

    $result1 = $this->action('GET', 'TodoController@index');
    $result2 = $this->action('GET', 'foo@bar');
    $result3 = $this->action('GET', '/');

    var_dump($result1 == $result2);     // returns true
    var_dump($result1 == $result3);     // returns true

$result1 and $result3 are fine, but what I really want is $result2 to toss up some sort of error. It could be anything, really, to let me know that the controller action was not found (the controller itself should not be found). Honestly, even $result3 is questionable (it should really be called with $this->call('GET', '/')).

The TestCase action function does this:

    public function action($method, $action, $wildcards = array(), $parameters = array(), $files = array(), $server = array(), $content = null, $changeHistory = true)
    {
        $uri = $this->app['url']->action($action, $wildcards, false);
        return $this->call($method, $uri, $parameters, $files, $server, $content, $changeHistory);
    }

If I var_dump the $uri before the return call, I see this:

.string(1) "/"    // $result1 = $this->action('GET', 'TodoController@index');
NULL              // $result2 = $this->action('GET', 'foo@bar');
NULL              // $result3 = $this->action('GET', '/');

I want it to send an exception... One of these:

    ResourceNotFoundException
    RouteNotFoundException
    MethodNotFoundException
    MethodNotAllowedException
    MethodNotAllowedHttpException
    NotFoundResourceException(msg)
    NotFoundHttpException

In Illuminate\Foundation\Testing\TestCase.php#action (line 100), I'm entering:

    use Symfony\Component\Routing\Exception\ResourceNotFoundException;

    if (is_null($uri))
        throw new ResourceNotFoundException(sprintf('Route "%s" not found.', $action));

I'll have to see if that can be submitted as a patch to Laravel itself, or if there's a better way to do it. In the meantime I can work with it.

So now, we can test a lot of things, using standard conventions:

    $result = $this->action('GET', 'TodoController@index');
    $this->assertContains('Illuminate\View', get_class($result->getOriginalContent()));
    $this->assertViewHas('items');
    $data = $result->getOriginalContent()->getData();
    $this->assertEquals(1, $data['items'][0]['id']);

To make that happen, I am returning information from an ArrayTodoRepository:

    class ArrayTodoRepository implements TodoRepositoryInterface
    {
        public function all()     
        {
            return array(
                array(
                    'id'            => 1,
                    'title'         => 'foo',
                    'description'   => 'bar',
                ),
            );
        }
    }

class EloquentTodoRepository implements TodoRepositoryInterface
{
    public function all()     { return Todo::all(); }
}

And now, I can create my Todo model...
And setup the database...

... and change the seed data, slightly, to see if I'm using the right thing...

Cool. At this point, we are getting data from two sources, but being able to address it exactly the same way. The two sources are:

    App::bind('TodoRepositoryInterface', 'ArrayTodoRepository');
    App::bind('TodoRepositoryInterface', 'EloquentTodoRepository');

Now, how can I make the default be EloquentTodoRepository, and the testing version be ArrayTodoRepository?

In a test function, I can re-bind it... And that works for one function at a time! Yes!!!! Now I have a (basically) in-memory test model. Yay!


Taking Credit Card Payments
-----------------------------

I just saw a posting on #laravel about accepting credit cards via authorize.net. Interesting stuff:

    http://www.authorize.net/
    http://www.authorize.net/solutions/merchantsolutions/pricing/
    http://www.authorize.net/solutions/merchantsolutions/merchantservices/cim/
    https://github.com/Payum/AuthorizeNetAim
    http://www.dharmams.com/rates-fees/retail-internet-combo-pricing/for-non-profits

Dharma Merchant Services looks awesome, in more ways than money. 

Pricing seems to look like this:

1. Payment Gateway Account (Authorize.net)
        Setup:          $99.00 /once                        $75
        Monthly:        $20.00 /month
        CIM (token):    $20.00 /month
        Transaction:    $  .10 /transaction
        Batch:          $  .25 /batch (what is this?)

2. Internet Merchant Account (dharmams.com)
        Monthly:        $15.00 /month
        Transaction:    $  .15 /transaction
         +                 0.3%

Interchange Rate (pre-set rate paid to the card-issuing bank)
    (many different rates, for different scenarios. Example: 2% + $0.10/transaction)

Visa/Mastercard/Discover (Card Brand) fees
    (approximately 0.11% + $0.02/transaction)





Wednesday, 17 April 2013 
===============================

Working more on the todo app today. 

I don't understand why I get a MethodNotAllowedHttpException on this:

    $result = $this->action('PUT', 'TodoController@store', array());

... right, 'cause it should be a POST.

And even after all of this, I'm really not sure how to do unit testing on the controllers...

In my EloquentTodoRepository, I'm returning the created object (Todo). This object has interesting things, like:

    getAttributes()         // All current attributes of model
    getOriginal()           // Original attribute values
    getKey()                // primary key of the model
    getDirty()              // array of attributes that have been changed

(and lots of other stuff)

In the ArrayTodoRepository (which, is, essentially a mock object), I'm returning a json encoded string. 

Actually, I think that's all the EloquentTodoRepository is sending, too...





Thursday, 18 April 2013 
===============================

Planning to start a new kata this morning.

I discovered that the Way generators now do scaffolding. Very cool! Not so useful for my kata, though...

There's a problem in the system somewhere. I'm getting a HTTP Error 500 (Internal Server Error), for no reason that I can tell. Tracing...

public/index.php
bootstrap/start.php
vendor/laravel/framework/src/Illuminate/Foundation/start.php

It's failing on $app->boot()

| Before we handle the requests we need to make sure the application has
| been booted up. The boot process will call the "boot" method on all
| service provider giving all a chance to register their overrides.

... so I have a service provider that's failing. Which one? Or is that the issue at all? Application->boot() doesn't seem to be getting hit.

OK... let's pull everything from scratch.

Done. Now, permissions. Done. And we're good.

---

This afternoon, let's try out the scaffolding.

I think I prefer doing things manually, with just the generate:resource ... Lots less to undo.


I just found some laravel helper functions. They're in:
Illuminate\Support\helpers.php
Extracted them with:

    phpdoc run -t docs -f vendor/laravel/framework/src/Illuminate/Support/helpers.php
    cat structure.xml | grep 'full_name\|description' | grep -v 'tag line=' | grep -v 'long-description'
    (then some manual formatting in sublime)

    action:            Generate a URL to a controller action.
    app:               Get the root Facade application instance.
    app_path:          Get the path to the application folder.
    array_divide:      Divide an array into two arrays.
    array_dot:         Flatten a multi-dimensional associative array with dots.
    array_except:      Get all of the given array except for a specified array of items.
    array_fetch:       Fetch a flattened array of a nested array element.
    array_first:       Return the first element in an array passing a given truth test.
    array_flatten:     Flatten a multi-dimensional array into a single level.
    array_forget:      Remove an array item from a given array using "dot" notation.
    array_get:         Get an item from an array using "dot" notation.
    array_only:        Get a subset of the items from the given array.
    array_pluck:       Pluck an array of values from an array.
    array_set:         Set an array item to a given value using "dot" notation.
    asset:             Generate an asset path for the application.
    base_path:         Get the path to the base of the install.
    camel_case:        Convert a value to camel case.
    class_basename:    Get the class "basename" of the given object / class.
    csrf_token:        Get the CSRF token value.
    e:                 Escape HTML entities in a string.
    ends_with:         Determine if a given string ends with a given needle.
    head:              Get the first element of an array.
    link_to:           Generate a HTML link.
    last:              Get the last element from an array.
    link_to_asset:     Generate a HTML link to an asset.
    link_to_route:     Generate a HTML link to a named route.
    link_to_action:    Generate a HTML link to a controller action.
    public_path:       Get the path to the public folder.
    route:             Generate a URL to a named route.
    secure_asset:      Generate an asset path for the application.
    secure_url:        Generate a HTTPS url for the application.
    snake_case:        Convert a string to snake case.
    starts_with:       Determine if a string starts with a given needle.
    storage_path:      Get the path to the storage folder.
    str_contains:      Determine if a given string contains a given sub-string.
    str_finish:        Cap a string with a single instance of a given value.
    str_is:            Determine if a given string matches a given pattern.
    str_plural:        Get the plural form of an English word.
    str_random:        Generate a "random" alpha-numeric string.
    str_singular:      Get the singular form of an English word.
    studly_case:       Convert a value to studly caps case.
    trans:             Translate the given message.
    trans_choice:      Translates the given message based on a count.
    url:               Generate a url for the application.
    value:             Return the default value of the given value.
    with:              Return the given object.




