Wednesday, 23 April 2014
==========================

Doing a little bit more on the FormBuilder class. Right now, all of the controls need to be put in a form. The controls also need to receive a form parameter, because the form is where a lot of processing will be done.

Currently, the form can be used to get the page name for wizards. It prepends the page name to the field name, so we get page[field]. On the server, we can use Input::get(page), and send that to the validator: Validation::make(Input::get('page'), $rules_for_page).

I want a new class to handle bootstrap field width calculations. If we do this:

    {{ KForm::open()->horizontal()->labelWidth('md',4) }}
        {{ KForm::text('foo') }}
        {{ KForm::text('bar')->labelWidth('md',2) }}
    {{ KForm::close() }}

we should expect to see this output:

    <form class="form-horizontal">
        <fieldset>
            <div class="form-group">
                <label class="control-label col-md-4" for="foo">Foo</label>
                <div class="col-md-8">
                    <input type="text" id="foo" name="foo" class="form-control">
                    <span class="help-block">This is a help block</span>
                </div>
            </div>
            <div class="form-group">
                <label class="control-label col-md-2" for="bar">Bar</label>
                <div class="col-md-10">
                    <input type="text" id="bar" name="bar" class="form-control">
                    <span class="help-block">This is a help block</span>
                </div>
            </div>
        </fieldset>
    </form>

A calculator should determine that the column width is col-md-8, given the form-wide label-width of col-md-4. It should also determine the column width of col-md-10, given an explicit label width. And, of course, should be overridden by any width() commands in the control itself.

Field rendering can be done like this:

    public function render()
    {
        return 
            $this->renderFormGroup()
                . $this->renderLabel()
                . $this->renderControlWrapper()
                    . $this->renderInputGroup()
                        . $this->renderPrependedAddons()
                        . $this->renderControl()
                        . $this->renderAppendedAddons()
                    . $this->renderInputGroupEnd()
                    . $this->renderHelpBlock()
                . $this->renderControlWrapperEnd()
            . $this->renderFormGroupEnd();
    }

... maybe, but inline fields have a different structure:

    FormGroup
        Label
        ControlWrapper
            FormGroup
                ControlWrapper (1-n)
                    InputGroup
                        PrependedAddons
                        Control
                        AppendedAddons
                    InputGroupEnd
                    HelpBlock
                ControlWrapperEnd
            FormGroupEnd
        ControlWrapperEnd
    FormGroupEnd

For radio buttons and checkboxes, it could work like this:

    $this->renderFormGroup()
        . $this->renderLabel()
        . $this->renderControlWrapper()
            . $this->renderRadioControls()
            . $this->renderHelpBlock()
        . $this->renderControlWrapperEnd()
    . $this->renderFormGroupEnd();

    renderRadioControl:

    $this->renderRadioLabel()
        $this->renderRadioItem()
    $this->renderRadioLabelEnd()

All in all, I'm not sure that I'll be able to do this with a single render() method. 

The tricky part has to do with groups, because they're nestable.


Friday, 25 April 2014
==========================
For my daily project today, I set up a very basic image uploading app. It's simple, and it works great on my local machine, but does not work on the server.

I'm getting this error:

[2014-04-25 20:26:37] production.ERROR: exception 'Symfony\Component\Debug\Exception\FatalErrorException' with message 'Call to undefined function Intervention\Image\finfo_buffer()' in .../Intervention/Image/Image.php:1802

finfo_buffer is a standard php command. I'm really not sure why it would be failing.

On my machine, I can use php -i | grep fileinfo, and see that it's installed and working. 

On the server, I can search for fileinfo; I find it in php.ini:

Configure Command =>  './configure'  '--prefix=/usr/local/php54' '--datadir=/usr/local/php54/share' ... '--enable-fileinfo=shared' 

I added fileinfo.so to php.ini; that seems to have worked. Yay!



Saturday, 26 April 2014
==========================
I'm starting to think about using things like bower, grunt, sass/less, and so on for assets. I don't know this stuff at all. I do think that I've already installed npm and bower, though, so that's a start.

https://rtcamp.com/tutorials/nodejs/node-js-npm-install-ubuntu/

    apt-get install python-software-properties
    apt-add-repository ppa:chris-lea/node.js
    apt-get update
    apt-get install nodejs
    node -v                    // I get v0.10.15
    apt-get install npm
    npm -v                     // I get 1.3.5

    sudo npm install -g bower 

With all of that (already) done, I can install the package that I want to use now:

    bower install jasny-bootstrap

It created a new folder called bower_components. What do I do with that? Inside are three folders, bootstrap, jasny-bootstrap, and jquery. It looks like the version of jquery is later than I have installed. Which makes sense. I think this is somewhat analogous to using composer. 

On laracasts, there's a discussion of gulp. Let's try installing it:

    sudo npm install -g gulp

I'm getting an error:

    npm ERR! Error: No compatible version found: chalk@'^0.4.0'
    npm ERR! Valid install targets:
    npm ERR! ["0.1.0","0.1.1","0.2.0","0.2.1","0.3.0","0.4.0"]
    npm ERR!     at installTargetsError (/usr/local/lib/node_modules/npm/lib/cache.js:719:10)
    ...

It looks like the solution is to upgrade npm. Right... it looks like I didn't have the ppa repository (ppa:chris-lea/node.js) already in my system. /etc/apt/sources.list.d didn't have it listed. After adding it, though, still can't upgrade...

    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get remove nodejs nodejs-dev npm
    sudo apt-get install nodejs
    nodejs -v                                 // Now, I get v0.10.26
    sudo apt-get install npm

Now I get an error:

    The following packages have unmet dependencies:
     npm : Depends: nodejs but it is not going to be installed
           Depends: nodejs-dev
           Depends: node-request but it is not going to be installed

But, it appears that I already have npm on my system. It was installed with nodejs. Hmmm... still the wrong version, though.

Interesting... It looks like a later version (1.4.3) is on my computer, at \usr\bin\npm. The wrong version (1.3.5) is at \usr\local\bin\npm (called first in my path).

    rm /usr/local/bin/npm

Hmmm... There are some serious security implications about running a package manager as root (these can pretty much run anything on the system). I just found out, though, that I can save the files to a different location:

    npm config set prefix ~/bin/npm
    export PATH=$HOME/npm/bin:$PATH
    npm install -g gulp

That worked, but when I try to run it:

    [gulp] No local gulp install found in <dir>
    [gulp] Try running: npm install gulp

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/18212175/npm-yo-keeps-asking-for-sudo-permission/18277225#18277225

I also had to set my NODE_PATH=$NODE_PATH:$HOME/npm/lib/node_modules

Bower works, yeoman works. I think things are correct, but gulp is still giving me the same error.

So frustrating!

Do I have to save it locally, too?

    npm install gulp --save-dev

I think that works... And now I can use gulp! It uses plugins to do its work...

    npm install gulp-bower-files --save-dev
    npm install gulp-filter --save-dev
    npm install gulp-flatten --save-dev

Hmmm.... Its' been a long morning, but I think I now have something that works!

    apt-get install python-software-properties
    apt-add-repository ppa:chris-lea/node.js
    apt-get update
    apt-get install nodejs
    node -v                    // I get v0.10.15
    // apt-get install npm (installed with nodejs)

    npm config set prefix ~/bin/npm
    export PATH=$HOME/npm/bin:$PATH
    ~/.bashrc: export NODE_PATH=$NODE_PATH:$HOME/bin/npm/lib/node_modules

    npm install -g bower
    npm install -g gulp

    // in project
    npm install -g bower --save-dev
    npm install -g gulp --save-dev

    npm install    // installs packages listed in package.json to node_modules
    bower install  // installs packages listed in bower.json to bower_components

    gulp bower     // copies packages from bower_components to public/vendor/...

On the server, I'm having a hard time installing nodejs. It looks like I might have to install it from source.

    git clone https://github.com/joyent/node.git
    cd node
  
    # Configure seems not to find libssl by default so we give it an explicit pointer.
    # Optionally: you can isolate node by adding --prefix=/opt/node
    ./configure --openssl-libpath=/usr/lib/ssl
    make
    make test
    sudo make install
    node -v               # it's alive!
 
    # Lucky us: NPM is packaged with Node.js source so this is now installed too
    # curl http://npmjs.org/install.sh | sudo sh
    npm -v                # it's alive!

