Monday, 27 May 2013
=======================

This morning, I'd like to combine laravel with the javascript work I did yesterday, as a simple kata. I'd like to be able to create, read, update, and delete spa records. These fields:

    id
    room
    in
    out
    therapist
    guest

It works very nicely! Yay!



Tuesday, 28 May 2013
=======================

Let's try some stuff with Bootstrap...

Hmmm... using the entire area of my page seems to be weirdly difficult. All that I want is a 3-column grid with a header and footer; the left column should stick to the left, and the right column should stick to the right side. Bootstrap wants to have everything float in the middle.

I sent the .container to 100% width. I'm not sure whether or not that's a bad idea. It seems to me that the standard scaffolding doesn't really work for my purposes. The one thing that I'm not sure about is how to set the width of the center column. I'm thinking about javascript for that... Basically, I want 200 for left, 200 for right, and everything else for the main section.

Ahhh... It can be done as a css-only solution. Yay!
http://www.cssplay.co.uk/layouts/flexible-3column-fix-flex-fix.html

This layout type is actually called the Holy Grail. :-)  Fixed sides, and a flexible center. There's another article about it at:
http://alistapart.com/article/holygrail

I'm having a problem pulling in FontAwesome:
Resource interpreted as Font but transferred with MIME type application/octet-stream: "http://kata/assets/font/fontawesome-webfont.woff?v=3.0.1". 


Git
----------
Reading some more about git: 
http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/

Branching Strategy:
We want several types of branches:

    master:     latest live/production version
    hotfix:         critical bug fixes, etc.; send directly to master and develop when completed 
    release:        once major features implemented, feature freeze. Bug fixes, and when good send to master
    develop:    integration branch; latest delivered development changes
    feature:        specific features for the next (or future) release. As feature completed, send to release 

Feature Branch:
    creating:
    $ git checkout -b myfeature develop     // switch to new myfeature branch, forked from develop

    incorporating:
    $ git checkout develop              
    $ git merge --no-ff myfeature
    $ git branch -d myfeature
    $ git push origin develop

Release Branch:
    creating release-*:
    $ git checkout -b release-1.2 develop
    $ echo 1.2 > version.txt
    $ git commit -a -m "Bumped version number to 1.2"

    incorporating, then removing:
    $ git checkout master
    $ git merge --no-ff release-1.2
    $ git tag -a 1.2
    $ git checkout develop
    $ git merge --no-ff release-1.2
    $ git branch -d release-1.2

Hotfix Branch:
    creating hotfix-*:
    $ git checkout -b hotfix-1.2.1 master
    $ echo 1.2.1 > version.txt
    $ git commit -a -m "Bumped version number to 1.2.1"

    Fixing the bug:
    $ git commit -m "Fixed severe production problem"

    Incorporate changes to master and develop:
    $ git checkout master
    $ git merge --no-ff hotfix-1.2.1
    $ git tag -a 1.2.1
    $ git checkout develop
    $ git merge --no-ff hotfix-1.2.1
    $ git branch -d hotfix-1.2.1

