Wednesday, 19 June 2013
============================

I'm trying to figure out how to include front-end libraries in my composer file. I found a composer package that will load some popular front-end libraries, including jquery, jqueryui, bootstrap, underscore, and font-awesome. It doesn't have some of the less-known packages, though.

Ideally, I'd like to be able to pull all of my component updates whenever I run composer update. I'd like to pull latest updates for these components:

DataTables
kineticjs
jquery-timepicker-addon
jquery-autosize

... probably lots more, too.


The composer package is:
https://github.com/RobLoach/component-installer

Trying to set up a repository. This didn't work (and broke the composer update):

    "repositories": {
        "type": "package",
        "package": {
            "name": "jquery-autosize",
            "version": "1.17.0",
            "source": {
                "url":  "http://github.com/jackmoore/autosize.git",
                "type": "git"
            }
        }
    },


    
Thursday, 20 June 2013
============================

Playing a little bit with the USDA nutrient database. I have created a github project for it...

Laravel can now be installed with:

    composer create-project laravel/laravel your-project-name



Locally-Hosted laravel documentation
-----------------------------------------

I need to host laravel documentation locally, because frequently the Internet here is questionable. First, download it:

    wget -  http://laravel.com

There is a problem, though. On the api section, it copies the links incorrectly, so doesn't look and work right. I need to run these:

    sed -i 's/style.css%3F3505392360.css/style.css/' *.html
    sed -i 's/combined.js%3F394153670/combined.js/' *.html
    sed -i 's/elementlist.js%3F3902790032/elementlist.js/' *.html

The api also doesn't have the same header, so I can't get back to other parts of the docs. I can start it with this:

    <header>
        <div class="container">
            <a href="index.html" title="Laravel PHP Framework" class="logo">&nbsp;</a>
            <nav class="menu">
                <ul>
                    <li><a href="../index.html" title="Welcome">Welcome</a></li>
                    <li><a href="../docs.1.html" title="Documentation">Documentation</a></li>
                    <li class="active"><a href="../api.1.html" title="Laravel Framework API">API</a></li>
                    <li><a href="https://github.com/laravel/laravel" title="Github">Github</a></li>
                    <li><a href="http://forums.laravel.io/" title="Laravel Forums">Forums</a></li>
                    <li><a href="http://twitter.com/laravelphp" title="Laravel on Twitter">Twitter</a></li>
                </ul>
            </nav>
        </div>
    </header>

How can I inject that into the files?

    sed '/searchText/ r file' <in >out

Write the above to file x_head.html, and run this:

    sed -i '/<body>/ r x_head.html' *.html

Perfect, except for styling... We need to include the styles from the standard site...

Actually, no. Those mess things up. We just need these styles:

    header,.features{background-color:#fff;}
    .partners{background-color:#f5f5f5;}
    header{padding:1em 0 3em;z-index:999;}
    header{border-bottom:1px solid #ff5949;}
    header .logo{float:left;height:30px;width:103px;background-image:url(../img/logo.png);background-repeat:no-repeat;text-decoration:none;}
    header .menu ul{margin:0;padding:0;list-style-type:none;*zoom:1;float:right;margin-top:0.2em;}
    header .menu ul li{margin:0;padding:0;}
    header .menu ul li{float:left;margin-left:1.5em;}
    header .menu a{text-decoration:none;text-transform:uppercase;font-size:0.7em;font-weight:normal;color:#ccc;}
    header .menu a:hover{color:#777;}
    header .menu li.active a{color:#ff5949;}

I created that as api.css

    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/api.css" />

Now, let's write that to the files:

    sed -i '/href="resources\/style.css/ r x_style.html' *.html

Now I have a great local resource; maybe update it once in a while.



Autocomplete with Laravel and JQuery UI
------------------------------------------

I figured out how to get the autocomplete widget in JQuery UI to work with Laravel. 

In the html file:

    {{ Form::label('autocomplete', 'Autocomplete Text') }}
    {{ Form::input('autocomplete', 'autocomplete', Null, array('placeholder'=>'Enter text')) }}


    <script type="text/javascript" src="/packages/underscore/underscore.js"></script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/packages/jquery-ui/jquery-ui-built.js"></script>

    var cache = {};
    $( "#autocomplete" ).autocomplete({
        minLength: 1,
        source: function( request, response ) {
            var term = request.term;
            if ( term in cache ) {
                response( _.pluck(cache[term], 'state_name') );
                return;
            }
 
            $.getJSON( "api/states", request, function( data, status, xhr ) {
                cache[term] = data;
                response( _.pluck(cache[term], 'state_name') );
            });
        }
    });

In the controller:

    public function index()
    {
        if (Request::ajax()) {
            return $this->items->search(Request::all());
        }

        $view =  View::make('api/index')
            ->with('object', $this->object);

        return $view->with('items', $this->items->search(Request::all()));   
    }

In the model:

    public static function search($searchTerms = array())
    {
        if (empty($searchTerms)) {
            return self::all();
        }

        // TODO: Make this more extensible -- API Controller?
        $full = DB::table('states')
            ->where('state_name', 'like', '%'.$searchTerms['term'].'%')
            ->take(5);
        $ret = DB::table('states')
            ->where('state_name', 'like', $searchTerms['term'].'%')
            ->take(5)
            ->union($full);
        return $ret->get();
    }

The model returns a list of states that start with the search term, then including the search term. If I include a maximum number (take(5)) in BOTH queries, it will just return the specified number of items. This has to be done in both queries, though.

The autocomplete widget sends a 'term' value, which should receive a response. 

