Saturday, 5 July 2014
======================
I found an interesting way to extract JUST the field I'm interested in. In an Eloquent query, I can use the lists method. So, if I want to get an array of barcode IDs from an Eloquent model, instead of this:

```php
    $raw = $this->sales
        ->...
        ->get(['barcode_id']);

    $barcodes = array();
    foreach($raw as $record)
        $barcodes[] = $record->barcode_id;

    return $barcodes;
```

I can use this:

```php
    return $this->sales
        ->...
        ->lists('barcode_id');
```

The code is cleaner, and it's over five times faster. For about 2,000 records, it takes about this long to run:

    lists: 0.01951909065246
    get:   0.10810995101929


I'm running into an interesting issue with eager loading. Basically, I run the above query to get a large list of barcode ids (those I am interested in seeing data about). I then run another Eloquent query to get the specific information I'm looking for. That second query should have another table eagerly loaded, so that it won't be ridiculously slow.

My list of IDs is thousands long, but it works. 

```php
    $barcodes = $this->getBarcodes();
    $barcodeSql = 'barcode_id in ("'.join($barcodes,'","').'")';

    $sales = $this->sales
        ->select(DB::raw('barcode_id,account_code,sum(quantity) as qty'))
        ->whereRaw($barcodeSql)
        ->...
        ->get();
```

The problem comes when I want to use eager loading. The eager-loaded relationship (Item) uses barcode_id as a key field. If I trim down the results to a managable size, and use `DB::getQueryLog()`, I see the query looks like this:

    select * from `gift_shop_inventory` where `gift_shop_inventory`.`barcode_id` in 
    (?, ?, ..., ?, ?)

It then has thousands of bound records. I think the binding process is what's making it crash. This is because, earlier, I figured out that there was an identical crash when I did this in the sales query:

    ->whereIn('barcode_id', $barcodes)

So I replaced it with this, which worked:

    ->whereRaw($barcodeSql)

Is there any way to force an eager-loaded relationship to use a whereRaw, instead of a whereIn construct? I've found that if I try to pass in a custom constraint, I get this:

    ->with(['item'=>function($q) use($barcodeSql){
        $q->whereRaw($barcodeSql);
    }])

    select * from `gift_shop_inventory` where `gift_shop_inventory`.`barcode_id` in 
    (?, ?, ... ?, ?) and barcode_id in ("016500510208",...,"TKH3")

...not quite what I wanted...

Really not sure if I can do this in Eloquent at all... 

I can run individual queries, and assemble an output object (being careful not to use anything from a relation)

    $barcodeSql = 'barcode_id in ("'.join($barcodes,'","').'")';

    $sales = $this->sales
        ->select(DB::raw('barcode_id,account_code,sum(-1*quantity) as qty'))
        ->whereRaw($barcodeSql)
        ->...
        ->get()

    $items = $this->items
        ->whereRaw($barcodeSql)
        ->...
        ->get()

