Tuesday, 9 July 2013
=================================

I'm having some problems with git today. When trying to pull changes, it's giving me this error:

    $ git pull
    Username for 'https://github.com':
    Password for 'https://<>@github.com':
    You asked me to pull without telling me which branch you
    want to merge with, and 'branch.autobuild.merge' in
    your configuration file does not tell me, either. Please
    specify which branch you want to use on the command line and
    try again (e.g. 'git pull <repository> <refspec>').
    See git-pull(1) for details.

At home, I had some trouble uploading it, too. Not sure what's going on.

git remote show origin    shows local vs origin branches, in this format:

    * remote origin
      Fetch URL: https://github.com/jijoel/project.git
      Push  URL: https://github.com/jijoel/project.git
      HEAD branch: master
      Remote branches:
        autobuild tracked
        dev       tracked
        master    tracked
      Local branches configured for 'git pull':
        dev    merges with remote dev
        master merges with remote master
      Local refs configured for 'git push':
        autobuild pushes to autobuild (local out of date)
        dev       pushes to dev       (up to date)
        master    pushes to master    (up to date)

In this particular case, autobuild is set to push, but not to pull. How can I reset that?

    git branch --set-upstream autobuild origin/autobuild



Many to Many relationships in Laravel
---------------------------------------
Trying to get a many-to-many relationship with non-standard key fields. Basically, I'm wanting to use my oid field, rather than the id field, so I can link base objects together. In my Person model, I have this:

    public function addresses()
    {
        return $this->belongsToMany('Address', 'object_addresses', 'address_oid', 'oid');
    }

Not working, though... Laravel will always use the defined key field. I could create another model for the same table, though. Maybe OPerson, or something.

    protected $primaryKey = 'oid';

... and do the same thing with addresses. 

I'm starting to think about when I want to use the simple ID, and when I want to use the OID...

Simple enough to manage. In BaseModel, include these:

    public static function findId($id, $columns = array('*'))
    {
        return static::findWhere('id', $id, $columns);
    }

    public static function findOid($id, $columns = array('*'))
    {
        return static::findWhere('oid', $id, $columns);
    }

    public static function findCode($code, $columns = array('*'))
    {
        return static::findWhere('code', $id, $columns);
    }

    protected static function findWhere($field, $id, $columns = array('*'))
    {
        $model = self::where($field, '=', $id)->first($columns);
        if( ! is_null($model) ) {
            return $model;
        }
        throw new ModelNotFoundException;
    }

I also tried a magic function, but it seems to be blocking something else important, so didn't work.
Ahhh... there are two separate magic functions:

    public static function __callStatic($name, $args)

    public function __call($name, $args)
    {
        // do stuff for this class...
        
        // Pass on to parent for more processing:
        return parent::call($name, $args);
    }

    
Friday, 12 July 2013
=================================

I have a couple of classes that I'd like to be able to share between projects. I know I could just copy the code, but that doesn't seem elegant, and definitely not dry... ;-)

What I really want to do, at this point, is figure out how to create a composer package.

There is an artisan command that looks promising:
  php artisan workbench   Create a new package workbench
  
Not sure what that does, or how to make it work... If I just put in a name (foo), I get this:

{"error":{"type":"ErrorException","message":"Undefined offset: 1","file":"<...>/WorkbenchMakeCommand.php","line":94}}

Instructions at: http://juniorgrossi.com/creating-your-first-composer-packagist-package/

I'll call it schema-interface:

cd schema-interface
composer init

Hmmmm... Not quite what I was looking for.
I just found out that Package Development is one of the sections in the official Laravel docs...

php artisan workbench jijoel/schema-interface --resources

add this to app/config/app.php:
    'jijoel\schema-interface\SchemaInterfaceServiceProvider',

    
Saturday, 13 July 2013
=================================
I want to do another really simple project -- a knowlege base app. Maybe a couple hours?

    composer create-project laravel/laravel kbase

tables:
  items:  id, author_id, title, slug, text
  users:  id, username, pw, name
  index:  item_id, word_id
  words:  id, word
  
I think that's it. Users can type what they're interested in finding (like Google), and get a list of responses.

Very simple project. It's now about 1:30....

    chmod -R go+w app/storage/*

Now I have an active, functioning instance of laravel

The Way generators are worthwhile just for migrations, let alone anything else...

Hmmmm... Once again, I find myself really, really wanting the schema interface stuff I built...

Let's see if I can make that happen, then.
Following instructions here:
http://culttt.com/2013/06/24/creating-a-laravel-4-package/

    composer create-project laravel/laravel schema-interface
    chmod -R go+w app/storage/*

In an existing project, we have this:

    ~/projects/web/kdbl/vendor/way/generators/src/Way/Generators/
    ~/projects/web/schema-interface/workbench/kalani/schema-interface/src/Kalani/SchemaInterface
    
I think this means I should put the git project in the first kalani folder under workbench. No... from docs, it should be workbench/[vendor]/[package]

Namespaces:

    namespace Way\Generators;                 // existing project
    namespace Way\Generators\Generators;      // for a sub-folder
    so... namespace Kalani\SchemaInterface    // for my project

Instructions here include how to make views:
http://jasonlewis.me/article/laravel-4-develop-packages-using-the-workbench

Hmmm... I'm having some progress, but it's not working in some ways. Model->getTable() is returning this:
kalani_schema_interface_schema_models
... it should be returning 'foo'

