Monday, 15 July 2013 
============================

Creating a laravel package for the schema interface... Some of this is written in laravel_packages.md

Instructions at:  

 * http://culttt.com/2013/06/24/creating-a-laravel-4-package/
 * http://jasonlewis.me/article/laravel-4-develop-packages-using-the-workbench

    composer create-project laravel/laravel schema-interface
    chmod -R go+w app/storage/*
    find . -type f | xargs chmod -x

Edit some settings in app/config/workbench.php, then set up the workbench:

    php artisan workbench --resources Kalani/SchemaInterface

I get a new folder structure that looks like this:

    ~/projects/web/schema-interface/workbench/kalani/schema-interface/src/Kalani/SchemaInterface

My namespace will be:

    namespace Kalani\SchemaInterface

In the SchemaInterface package, I want to put these objects:

    SchemaController
    SchemaModel
    TableSchema
    ValidationRuleGenerator

First thing to do is create a test in workbench/kalani/schema-interface/tests:

    <?php

    class SchemaControllerTest extends PHPUnit_Framework_TestCase
    {
        public funtion testWorks()
        {
            $this->assertTrue(False);
        }
    }

Running phpunit from /workbench/kalani/schema-interface...
It fails. We can begin...

    <?php

    use Kalani\SchemaInterface\SchemaController;

    class SchemaControllerTest extends PHPUnit_Framework_TestCase
    {
        public function testSchemaControllerExists()
        {
            $c = new SchemaController();
        }
    }

Create file /workbench/kalani/schema-interface/src/Kalani/SchemaInterface/SchemaController.php:

    <?php

    namespace Kalani\SchemaInterface;

    class SchemaController 
    {
        
    }

I'm having a problem loading the database....

Can I mock it?

    use Mockery as m;

(I'm not sure why, but this seems to be the only way I can get mockery to work)
... and it doesn't really work.

Hmmm... In my tester, it doesn't recognize $app; it doesn't recognize DB, it doesn't recognize anything that I'm trying to use.


Tuesday, 16 July 2013 
============================
There's a package called orchestra/testbench that enables fuller unit testing for laravel packages. I'll give it a shot...

I'm not really sure how it's supposed to work, but it's giving me an error: 

Fatal error: Class 'Illuminate\Foundation\Testing\TestCase' not found in C:\wamp\www\active\lkata\workbench\kalani\schema-interface\vendor\orchestra\testbench\src\Orchestra\Testbench\TestCase.php on line 10

While I would love to put it in a package, that doesn't really look realistic right now. Easy enough to copy and paste between projects, even if it's not elegant.

Actually, screw that. The code works, I just can't test it when it's split out from a project. Maybe I can get some pointers on that, at some point. In the meantime, I can just load up routes.php with manual tests.

So, moving on...

I'm not sure how to pass a parameter to a service. So again, I'm fucked....

So, for right now, let's make a package of the Validation Rule Generator. That's fairly simple, and still nice. It will help me find footing, and remove some level of complexity (still a bit complex, though)...

    php artisan workbench Kalani/ValidationRuleGenerator

copied various files, and set the namespace to Kalani\ValidationRuleGenerator...

In the workbench/kalani/validation-rule-generator folder:

    git init
    git add .
    git commit -m 'initial commit'

How do I upload it to github?
Create the repository on github, then:

    git remote add origin https://github.com/jijoel/validation-rule-generator.git
    git push

I might be able to get the other one, too, basically the same way that View::make('view') is done. That's defined in vendor\laravel\framework\src\Illuminate\View\Environment. Everything in the constructor is defined in the ServiceProvider, but make() includes some other stuff.



Wednesday, 17 July 2013 
============================

Now attempting to write a package that inherits from a controller, and uses the packages I built yesterday. 

    composer create-project laravel/laravel schema-interface
    chmod -R go+w app/storage/*
    find . -type f | xargs chmod -x

Edit some settings in app/config/workbench.php, then set up the workbench:

    php artisan workbench --resources Kalani/SchemaInterface

Modify workbench/kalani/schema-interface/composer.json to include:

    "kalani/validation-rule-generator": "dev-master",
    "kalani/table-schema-collector": "dev-master",
    "bllim/datatables": "dev-master"

(maybe other things, too...)

I want the controller to be something that can be inherited. 
Hmmm... In my test, am I inheriting from the facade, instead of the actual controller?
That's it. The test controller has to use the full namespace

    Kalani\SchemaInterface\SchemaController

Hmmmm.... In app.php, the standard controller (and model) alias looks like this:

    'Controller'      => 'Illuminate\Routing\Controllers\Controller',
    'Eloquent'        => 'Illuminate\Database\Eloquent\Model',

They don't go through a facade. Can I skip the facade for my controller?
Yes.

Now, trying to make a view. In one of my functions, I have:

    return View::make('schema-controller::test');

I'm getting an error:

    No hint path defined for [schema-controller].

Right. Because the name of the package as a whole is [schema-interface]. I changed it to that, and it worked.

For the index view, I want to use datatables...

All views need to be overridable, though... Preferably without overriding any functions.

I'll create a protected $views array, that lists each of the views that are in use. Child classes can then override those to get a specific view.  The child views should send data into one of 3 sections: css, js, and content.

We're going to use jquery and datatables; they should be put in:

    /public/packages/jquery
    /public/packages/datatables

I was getting an error that "ReferenceError: require is not defined". It turns out that I was using the wrong dataTables .js file.  I was using:

    datatables\media\src\DataTables.js

I should have used:

    datatables\media\js\jquery.dataTables.js  (or .min.js)

Now, it works for simple items (that is, where I just send everything from the model to the view).

    @foreach($items as $item)
        <tr>
            <td>{{ $item->name }}</td>
            <td>{{ $item->gender }}</td>
            <td>{{ $item->birthdate }}</td>
        </tr>
    @endforeach

    $('#example').dataTable();

How can I load data from the server via AJAX?

    <td colspan="5" class="dataTables_empty">Loading data from server</td>

Excellent! This gives me data, but it's including everything, not just the fields I have selected. It's also giving me first and last name, rather than my (custom) name attribute. It is very fast, though. 

In datatables.init_columns, it can modify values based on developer input. It's doing this:

    if (is_string($value['content'])):
        $value['content'] = $this->blader($value['content'], $rvalue);
    elseif (is_callable($value['content'])):
        $value['content'] = $value['content']($rvalue);
    endif;

For everything I've tried, it's selecting the is_string option...

Ahhh... This works, but isn't really pretty:

    ->add_column('name', '{{ MyModel::find($id)->name }}', 0)




Thursday, 18 July 2013 
============================

I'm working on the schema interface package--need to work at home today; I pulled the full work project from github, but it's not recognizing my workbench classes. Why? Do I have to run composer install from the package folder, too?  Yes. It worked fine after I did that.

In my food database, I have a table (nutrient_data), that has 595,359 records. I can't load it via datatables. The problem isn't in datatables, itself. It's in Laravel. It just dies suddenly without any output at all.

I wonder if it gets an out-of-memory error. The table is huge...

That's it exactly. From /var/log/apache2/error.log:

[Thu Jul 18 10:31:36 2013] [error] [client 127.0.0.1] PHP Fatal error:  Allowed memory size of 134217728 bytes exhausted (tried to allocate 81 bytes) in <...>Illuminate/Database/Connection.php on line 270

... which is why we have pagers. It works perfectly with a pager:

    Route::get('/all', function()
    {
        $v = MyModel::paginate(20);

        echo '<ul>';
        foreach($v as $m) {
            echo "<li>$m->ndb_no  $m->nutr_no</li>";
        }
        echo '</ul>';

        echo $v->links();
    });

It raises the question: should laravel throw an error if a query is going to be too big?

Also, it seems that there is an issue in DataTables. We shouldn't load the entire table, just the parts on the user's screen.

Loading data via ajax
------------------------
Here's what I've ended up with:

    class Person extends Eloquent
    {
        public function search()
        {
            $items = self::select(array('id'));
            return Datatables::of($items)
                ->add_column('name', '{{ MyModel::find($id)->name }}', 0)
                ->remove_column('id')
                ->make();
        }

        public function getNameAttribute()
        {
            return $this->first_name . ' ' . $this->last_name;
        }
    }

Hmmmm... How can we handle lookukps, given that structure?

I can do this:

    ->add_column('gender', '{{ MyModel::find($id)->foo }}', 1)

and this:

    public function getFooAttribute()
    {
        $gender = Gender::where('code', '=', $this->gender)->first(array('name'));
        return $gender['name'];
    }

If I try to use the gender attribute, here, I get an error. I think the column name in the database has to be different (gender_code, rather than gender), or get gender_name

This means that a lookup column (for a foreign key) needs to include a _code, or _id suffix.

Theoretically, datatables handles filtering.

get_results pulls the entire table, though.

... For the first time it gets pulled...


Logging
-----------
How does the logging work?

Log::info('This is some useful information.');
Log::warning('Something could be going wrong.');
Log::error('Something is really going wrong.');

The logger provides the seven logging levels defined in RFC 5424: 

    debug, info, notice, warning, error, critical, and alert.

How do we convert var_dump data to a string?
Don't. Use var_export, instead.

    \Log::debug(var_export(DB::getQueryLog(), true));

How does it use the paging feature?

In my controller, I was doing this:

    return View::make($this->_views['index'])
        ->with('views', $this->_views)
        ->with('schema', $schema)
        ->with('items', $this->model->search(Request::all()));

That's going to give me an issue, though, because I don't necessarily have request items, so it'll pull everything from the database. I may just be using it wrong.

It's not letting me search... Because it's only looking for records in selected fields. Maybe I can pull in more fields?

Hmmmm.... I have something that works right, but doesn't seem elegant:

Model:

    class Person extends Eloquent
    {
        public $table = 'people';

        public function search()
        {
            $items = self::select(array('id','first_name', 'last_name', 'gender', 'birthdate'));

            return Datatables::of($items)
                ->add_column('name', '{{ Person::find($id)->name }}', 0)
                ->edit_column('gender', '{{ Person::find($id)->genderName }}', 1)
                ->remove_column('id')
                ->remove_column('first_name')
                ->remove_column('last_name')
                ->make();
        }

        public function getNameAttribute()
        {
            return $this->first_name . ' ' . $this->last_name;
        }

        public function getGenderNameAttribute()
        {
            $gender = Gender::where('code', '=', $this->gender)->first(array('name'));
            return $gender['name'];
        }

Controller:

    public function index()
    {
        if (Request::ajax()) {
            return $this->model->search();
        }

        $schema = TableSchemaCollector::make($this->model->getTable());

        return View::make($this->_views['index'])
            ->with('views', $this->_views)
            ->with('schema', $schema);
    }

Client view:

    $(document).ready(function() {
        $('#example').dataTable( {
            "bProcessing": true,
            "bServerSide": true,
            "sAjaxSource": "/foo",
        } );
    } );

I don't really want my models to know (or care) about datatables or other layout stuff. As much as possible, give it to the controller.

Other Issues:

    * Can not sort on custom fields (eg, name)  
      (can it accept custom sort params or callback?)



Saturday, 20 July 2013 
============================

I just learned something fascinating. When I include modules in my workbench (via composer), it also pulls in the git data for those modules. I can actually post changes to the modules that my module is created from. Yay!

Hmmmm.... How can I use a helper function in a couple of different classes in the module?


Sunday, 21 July 2013
=======================

I have come up with a way to test classes in a package. It's a little jacked-up, but it works. No telling how it will do for updates.

I create a package through the workbench feature. This gives me a directory structure like so:

    project/app/
               /controllers
               /models
               /tests
           /public
           /vendor
           /workbench/
                     /vendor/package/
                                    /public
                                    /src
                                    /tests
                                    /vendor
                                    
I create a test in workbench/vendor/package/tests, and symlink it it project/app/tests. The test itself can look like this:

class SchemaCollectorTest extends TestCase
{
    public function testWorks()
    {
        $this->assertTrue(False);
    }

If I need to incorporate a model, I can do the same type of symlinking; this should keep all of the components together.

Make sure to add the new package to the service provider array.

I'm trying to use mocks again for testing, but don't really know how they work. This throws an error:
BadMethodCallException: Method unknown::getTable() does not exist on this mock object


    $m = Mockery::mock();
    $c = SchemaCollector::make($m);

This throws a different error:
.{"error":{"type":"ErrorException","message":"call_user_func_array() expects parameter 1 to be a valid callback, class 'Mockery\\Expectation' does not have a method 'getTable'","file":"<...>vendor\/mockery\/mockery\/library\/Mockery\/CompositeExpectation.php","line":54}}

    $m = Mockery::mock()
        ->shouldReceive('getTable')
        ->once()
        ->andReturn('foo');
    $c = SchemaCollector::make($m);

At some point, I need to do some serious studying an practice on mocks...

