Thursday, 25 July 2013
===========================

Trying to load a composer repository from a private github project... I put this in composer.json:

    "require-dev": {
        "kalani/work-file-bank": "dev-master"
    },
    "repositories": [
        {
            "type": "vcs",
            "url":  "https://github.com/jijoel/work-file-bank.git"
        }
    ],

Then:

    composer update --dev

It didn't work, though. It gave me this error:

    [Composer\Downloader\TransportException]                                                                      
    The "https://api.github.com/repos/jijoel/work-file-bank" file could not be downloaded (HTTP/1.1 500 Internal Server Error)                                                                                                

Maybe a network issue? I tried it again. This time, it gave me this:

    Your requirements could not be resolved to an installable set of packages.

      Problem 1
        - The requested package kalani/work-file-bank could not be found in any version, 
          there may be a typo in the package name.

    Potential causes:
    - A typo in the package name
    - The package is not available in a stable-enough version according to your minimum-stability setting
      see <https://groups.google.com/d/topic/composer-dev/_g3ASeIFlrc/discussion> for more details.

Hmmmm.... in the composer.json file in the remote repo, it refers to the project as kalani/file-bank; I'l try changing require-dev to that...

Ha! That was it!

    "require-dev": {
        "kalani/file-bank": "dev-master"
    },

    composer update --dev --prefer-source

I'd also like to play with the Laravel Administrator package...

First, some basic project setup:

    composer create-project laravel/laravel projectName
    chmod -R o+w storage

* Setup app/config/database.php to point to a database (food, in this case).
* Create a model for a table  (eg, DataDerivationCode) in app/models

    class DataDerivationCode extends Eloquent
    {
        protected $table = 'data_derivation_code';
        protected $primaryKey = 'deriv_cd';
    }

Add the Laravel Administrator package to composer.json, then run `composer update`:

  "require": {
    "frozennode/administrator": "dev-master"
    
Register it in the providers array in app/config/app.php:

    'Frozennode\Administrator\AdministratorServiceProvider',

Publish the assets and config:

    php artisan asset:publish frozennode/administrator
    php artisan config:publish frozennode/administrator

Add a directory for configuration information:

    mkdir app/config/administrator
    
Edit the configuration file (app/config/packages/frozennode/administrator/administrator.php):

* model configuration file directory (default app/config/administrator)
* menu (there must be an item for each model configuration file):
    'menu' => array('Test' => array('data_derivation_codes')),
* home_page (the model/settings page to open first, eg data_derivation_codes)
    
Create a configuration file for each model to be included in Administrator. It must have the same name as the item in the menu list.

* columns can be fields in the table, relationships, or accessors in the eloquent model. Further information on them at http://administrator.frozennode.com/docs/columns
* edit_fields describes the field editors. See http://administrator.frozennode.com/docs/fields for more info. These are valid types: Key, Text, Password, TextArea, WYSIWYG, Markdown, Relationship, Number, Bool, Enum, Date, Time, Datetime, File, Image, Color 

This is a (very simple) example:

    <?php
    return array(
        'title'         => 'Data Derivation Codes', 
        'single'        => 'data derivation code', 
        'model'         => 'DataDerivationCode',        // fully qualified
        'columns'       => array('deriv_cd','deriv_desc'), 
        'edit_fields'   => array(
            'deriv_cd'   => array('title' => 'Derivation Code'),
            'deriv_desc' => array('title' => 'Description'),
    ));

Go to the /admin folder (or whatever you specified in the administrator.php file)

I get an error:

    Using $this when not in object context

A quick fix to that, but I get another:

    syntax error, unexpected '['

(this is on a line where it's using a function call, then an array; I'm running php 5.3, though...)

src/controllers/AdminController.php: 

    if (!$model->exists || !$actionFactory->getActionPermissions()['delete'])

change to:

    $permission = $actionFactory->getActionPermissions();
    if (!$model->exists || !$permission['delete'])

Now, the table is working fine, but when I click on a single item, I can not edit it. The page just freezes. Why?

    {"error":{"type":"Symfony\\Component\\HttpKernel\\Exception\\NotFoundHttpException","message":"","file":"<...>\/bootstrap\/compiled.php","line":4945}}

Looking for page http://test.dev/admin/data_derivation_codes/RPI, and not finding it...

Could it be because the table itself isn't indexed with a primary key? Is it because it doesn't have an id field?

    alter table data_derivation_code add primary key (deriv_cd);

No; still doesn't work. Do we need a numeric primary key?

    alter table data_derivation_code drop primary key;
    alter table data_derivation_code add column id int not null auto_increment first, add primary key (id);
    (and update the $primaryKey setting in my DataDerivationCode model)

That was it. Now, it works fine. Yay! It looks nifty, too... 

Let's see what happens if I try to send in a duplicate on a unique index:

    create unique index deriv_cd_index on data_derivation_code (deriv_cd);

It fails, silently (unless I look at the network response). If I create a $rules array for it, it works. Hmmmm.... I really want my ValidationRuleGenerator class here! Especially if it could give me a written layout of the rules array for a table, that I could just copy and paste into the class...

Also, ideally, I'd like to send the fixes I found back to frozennode (the creators of the package). How can I make a pull request?

1. Fork the repository to your own github account
2. Clone a copy to your local machine
3. Create a new branch for your feature or bug fix
4. Make the changes
5. Commit the changes (git add; git commit)
6. Push our branch to out github repo  (git push origin my/branch)
7. Look at our branch on github
8. Click Pull Request button on github; where you want to submit changes; write comments; send pull request





