Tuesday, 29 July 2014
======================

I just found out, when testing, that sqlite doesn't handle a `concat` function.

Hmmm... I'm only using concat as a shortcut, duplicating some functionality that I already have. In one large query, that does not return a model, I'm using this:

    SELECT ...
        concat(x.account_code, ' - ', ifnull(a.code_description,'')) as account_name,
        ...

In my AccountCode model, I have this:

    public function getCodeNameAttribute()
    {
        return $this->account_code . ' - ' . $this->code_description;        
    }

How can I combine them?

This actually might be a good place to use domain events and a command bus pattern. My compiler could send out an event notification; interested objects (eg, the ones that have data) could respond to that with their data.


Thursday, 31 July 2014
=======================

This morning, trying to set gc_maxlifetime to 84600 (a full day) to see if that will end the random logout issue. I'm not sure why it would affect anything, though. I made a graph of visits to the login page, and didn't see any particular spikes or patterns. It definitely doesn't look like it's stopping at a 24-minute mark for any given machine, and it doesn't look like it's shutting down all of the sessions at any given point. It just looks random.

Changing gc_maxlifetime doesn't seem to have fixed anything. Still getting random logouts.

http://yetanotherprogrammingblog.com/content/laravel-40-41-session-configuration-problem-solved

> Laravel 4.1 implements its own garbage collection and uses the value of ‘lifetime’ (along with the ‘lottery’ settings, which are the equivalent to PHP's probability and divisor settings) to control garbage collection. Laravel runs a lottery every time it finishes processing a request and if the right number comes up, it deletes all sessions that are older than the number of minutes specified by ‘lifetime’.

> The default values for the lottery are 2 and 100. So basically, regardless of the value of ‘expire_on_close’ and the validity or timeliness of the session cookie provided by the client, if ‘lifetime’ is set to a value of zero, all sessions will get deleted at the server side approximately one in every 50 requests. This explains why my clients were getting logged out literally at random!

Hmmmm... But he had his lifetime set to 0; mine is 120. It shouldn't be related...



Friday, 1 August 2014
=======================
I modified vendor/laravel/framework/src/Illuminate/Session/FileSessionHandler.php to write data to the log whenever it writes, destroys, or gc's... Whenever I go to a new page, it writes to the same file again. And now I see a login screen. The file content looks like this:

> a:4:{s:6:"_token";s:40:"lDGYUsLX8QRtB1bgehdLDzGCV36bi3lIRNZRmYkl";s:3:"url";a:1:{s:8:"intended";s:49:"http://kdb/reports/gl-customer?id=4965&type=staff";}s:5:"flash";a:2:{s:3:"old";a:0:{}s:3:"new";a:0:{}}s:9:"_sf2_meta";a:3:{s:1:"u";i:1406912257;s:1:"c";i:1406912256;s:1:"l";s:1:"0";}}

Hmmm... not logged in.

Starting over.... When I initaially log in to the system, I get a new session. The login page is session1, now I have session2. Session1 is destroyed; session2 looks like this, which does include my user id ('JO'):

a:5:{s:6:"_token";s:40:"lDGYUsLX8QRtB1bgehdLDzGCV36bi3lIRNZRmYkl";s:3:"url";a:0:{}s:5:"flash";a:2:{s:3:"old";a:0:{}s:3:"new";a:0:{}}s:38:"login_82e5d2c56bdd0811318f0cf078b78bfc";s:2:"JO";s:9:"_sf2_meta";a:3:{s:1:"u";i:1406912798;s:1:"c";i:1406912256;s:1:"l";s:1:"0";}}

Interesting. After a few minutes, I opened two forms in rapid succession, and got a login screen... Have I done that before? Yes. It's still random. Sometimes, I'll open two forms, and it will work fine. Other times, it won't.

Hmmmm.... I logged out, and back in, and (after a few seconds) saw several things being written. And am no longer logged in. 

Doh! Just as things were getting interesting, someone else logged in. Since I haven't been able to get this to happen on my dev server (just the production server), having another person online is going to mess with my data. 

Interesting, though.... I'm not seeing a user id in any of the new sessions that are being written. It's probably been logged out, and people are not logging back in (yet). Let's see if that's the case... It is. My clients are being driven batty by constantly having to log in, so they're not bothering to do so, unless they really, really need something.

Does it work if I turn off authentication?

Hmmmm.... I haven't been able to get it to fail in the past few minutes, so I can't check to see if turning off auth will do anything. Strange. The only thing I've done is turned the logging off again. And it hasn't failed at all for the past half hour or so.

Someone else just found a failure. I turned off auth, and it's now working fine. Interesting. Not a good long-term fix...



Saturday, 2 August 2014
=======================

In my before and after filters, let's see what Auth::user() is bringing up...

    App::before(function($request)
    {
        Log::info(Request::url());
        if (Auth::user())
            Log::info(Auth::user()->id);
    });

    App::after(function($request, $response)
    {
        if (Auth::user())
            Log::info(Auth::user()->id);
        else
            Log::info('no user');
    });

In cases where it's losing the user, why is that happening? Can I force it to happen?

Can't force it (so far), but it will randomly happen after a while.

I can only debug this for a couple of hours in early morning before other people come in.


Sunday, 3 August 2014
=====================

Something else that came up: We're unable to print web pages from Access. Hmmmm....

There are instructions on how to do that on http://www.vistax64.com/vb-script/186051-how-print-web-page-vba.html

Also some handy constants:

    Const OLECMDID_PRINT = 6
    Const OLECMDID_PRINTPREVIEW = 7
    Const OLECMDID_PAGESETUP = 8

    Const OLECMDEXECOPT_DODEFAULT = 0

So, this works:

    Screen.ActiveForm.Form.WebBrowser.ExecWB OLECMDID_PRINT, OLECMDEXECOPT_DODEFAULT

