Wednesday, 24 July 2014
========================

I'm running into an issue with Intervention/Image. Basically, when I try to load some images, I get an immediate blank page. No error is thrown, nothing is returned; it just fails.

In the apache error log, I see:

    Fatal error: Allowed memory size of 134217728 bytes exhausted (tried to allocate 2883584 bytes) in C:\wamp\www\active\kdb\vendor\intervention\image\src\Intervention\Image\Gd\Encoder.php on line 35

Why doesn't this show up in the browser? Is there any way to throw an out-of-memory exception in such a way that I can catch and process it without getting a blank page? Also, why do some images cause this, but other (larger) images do not?

It's an issue in the GD Encoder. The line that causes the error is this:

    imagepng($resource, null, -1);

In phpinfo, I have:

    GD Support  enabled
    GD Version  bundled (2.0.34 compatible)

I could use memory_get_usage to see the memory, but not sure what that gets me...

for a 2.93MB failing photo: 74,553,800
for a 3.04MB failing photo: 74,528,072
for a 3.91MB working photo: 45,509,920

Why is there such a difference? Everything else is the same...

When trying to store the image:

```php
    var_dump(memory_get_usage());
    $image = $this->openImageFile($photo);   // which basically just puts Image::make($photo) in a try/catch
    dd(memory_get_usage());
```

    3.99MB working:  5,619,352  45,785,136    (8x increase)
    2.93MB failing:  5,335,600  74,545,208    (14x increase)

What is happening, here? Why is Intervention taking so much memory? 

    ImageManager creates a new GD driver and runs init on it
    The GD driver instantiates a decoder in __construct; init runs decoder->init.
    init looks for the type of image; sees that it is $this->isSymfonyUpload();
        calls $this->initFromPath($this->data->getRealPath());
    The GD decoder initFromPath method takes memory from 5,449,232 to 74,546,320

From http://www.techchattr.com/php-imagecreatefromjpeg-memory-limit-error:

    The amount of memory that needs to be allocated for the image doesn’t depend directly on the image size in terms of KB or MB. It is related to other properties such as dimensions in pixels, channels, bits, etc. 

It suggests increasing the memory usage on the fly, like this:

```php
    $imageInfo = getimagesize('PATH/TO/YOUR/IMAGE');
    $memoryNeeded = round(($imageInfo[0] * $imageInfo[1] * $imageInfo['bits'] * $imageInfo['channels'] / 8 + Pow(2,16)) * 1.65);
    if (function_exists('memory_get_usage') && memory_get_usage() + $memoryNeeded (integer) ini_get('memory_limit') *pow(1024, 2)) {
    ini_set('memory_limit', (integer) ini_get('memory_limit') + ceil(((memory_get_usage() + $memoryNeeded) - (integer) ini_get('memory_limit') * pow(1024, 2)) / pow(1024, 2)) . 'M');
```

Let's find out how big our photos are: `dd(getimagesize($photo));`

For a failing 2.93MB image, we have this information:

    0 => int 3216
    1 => int 4288
    2 => int 2
    3 => string 'width="3216" height="4288"' (length=26)
    'bits' => int 8
    'channels' => int 3
    'mime' => string 'image/jpeg' (length=10)

So, memory needed is round((3216 * 4288 * 8 * 3 / 8 + Pow(2,16)) * 1.65) = 68,369,664... ouch!  

```php
    var_dump(memory_get_usage());               //  5,450,784
    $core = imagecreatefromjpeg($path);
    var_dump(memory_get_usage());               // 74,512,176
```

For a successful 3.99MB image, we have this:

array (size=7)
  0 => int 3264
  1 => int 2448
  2 => int 2
  3 => string 'width="3264" height="2448"' (length=26)
  'bits' => int 8
  'channels' => int 3
  'mime' => string 'image/jpeg' (length=10)

I don't know that there's any way around this... although I do think we can calculate to find out if there's enough memory... Let's increase the memory_limit in php in apache to 512MB (from 128MB)

That seems to have worked. It would be nice for Intervention to throw out a memory error before failing, though... I wonder if it uses a similar amount of memory to write...

    Allowed memory: 134,217,728 
    tried (excess):   2,883,584

    Allocated:       74,553,800
    Photo size:      68,369,664
                    -----------
                    142,923,464

It's a little bit more, but in the ballpark. I think that's probably what's happening.

This has been a known issue with GD for a long time. I really should submit a patch for Intervention.



