Tuesday, 17 September 2013
===================================

I had an issue with a date field today. I'm able to write timestamp-formatted date strings to the database, but not other formats. So this would work:

    $person->birthdate = '2001-01-20 04:27:00';

but this would not:

    $person->birthdate = '1/20/2001';

Running into it when trying to present data, too...

Instead of using Laravel's native dates function, I manually set an Accessor and Mutator. Instead of this:

    public function getDates()
    {
        return array('birthdate');
    }

I'm doing this:

    public function setBirthdateAttribute($birthdate)
    {
        $newValue = new Carbon($birthdate);
        $this->attributes['birthdate'] = $newValue->format('Y-n-j 00:00:00');
    }

    public function getBirthdateAttribute($value)
    {
        return new Carbon($value);
    }

... and that seems to work. Not crazy about it as a solution (I'll have to remember to do the same thing for all other dates, throughout the system), but it should work. I'm really not sure why Eloquent uses the date values that it does.



Wednesday, 18 September 2013
===================================
More on dates today... I'm getting away from Carbon, moving into a custom date class that can handle exactly what we need (this class uses a Carbon object interally, though). Long, short dates, etc. Everything in one place, with a pretty simple interface:

```php
class DateHandler
{
    protected $date;

    public function __construct($date)
    {
        $this->date = new Carbon($date);
    }

    /**
     * returns date in format m/d/yyyy  (eg, 7/10/1970)
     */
    public function short()
    {
        return $this->date->format('n/j/Y');
    }

    /**
     * returns date in format Month d, yyyy  (eg, July 10, 1970) 
     */
    public function long()
    {
        return $this->date->format('F j, Y');
    }

    /**
     * returns date in editable date format   (eg, 1970-07-03)
     */
    public function editable()
    {
        return $this->date->format('Y-m-d');
    }


    /**
     * Used by default, when no options are given; returns editable date format
     */
    public function __toString()
    {
        return $this->editable();
    }

    /**
     * Enables the user to load formats via properties or methods
     */
    public function __get($name)
    {
        return $this->$name();
    }
}
```

I'm trying to get a list of options from my EloquentPersonRepository object; simple enough, but it's confusing my presenter. 

This does not work:

```php
    return View::make('frontend.object.person.edit')
        ->with(array('person'=>$found, 'repo'=>$this->person));
```

This does work, though:

```php
    $found = $this->person->findOrFail($id);
    return View::make('frontend.object.person.edit')
        ->with('person', $found)
        ->with('repo', $this->person);
```

I can then use this to select items:

    {{ KForm::select('Gender', 'gender', $repo->choices('gender'), $person->gender) }}

<<<<<<< Updated upstream




Thursday, 19 September 2013
====================================

Someone in the Laravel forum today posed the very interesting question, how to get upcoming birthdays for people. This is a little bit of an aside, but should show me some interesting things.

It's a lot harder than it would seem, at first. In MySQL, I can get a list of normalized dates like this:

```sql
    select *, date_format(birthdate, "2013-%m-%d") as foo from people
```

That will get all of our people records, with a birthdate in this year. If we could get that list, we can then do a search on the foo field for dates within a given time period, and then we have birthdays.

Hmmm.... tricky.

Even just that first step. How can I get SQL to return something that isn't in the table?

This works to retrieve data in the table, and other (fixed) data:

```php
    $rows = \DB::select('SELECT * from people');
    $rows = \DB::select('SELECT *, "bar" as foo  from people');
```

This gives me an error:

```php
    $rows = \DB::select('SELECT *, date_format(birthdate, "1980-%m-%d") as foo from people');
```

> PDOException: SQLSTATE[HY000]: General error: 1 no such function: date_format

Hmmmmm.....

Testing for my project is done with a sqlite database. Maybe sqlite doesn't include a date_format function?

Ahhhh... That's it, exactly. It works fine in a kata project where I'm not using an in-memory database. It may be hard to test... Let's see if we can get records that use it:

```php
    $people = new Person;
    $found = $people
        ->whereBetween("date_format(birthdate, \"{$year}-%m-%d\")",  
            array('2013-07-01','2013-07-20'))
        ->get();
```php

I'm getting an error:

> PDOException: SQLSTATE[42S22]: Column not found: 1054 Unknown column 'date_format(birthdate, "2013-%m-%d")' in 'where clause'

```php
    $people = new Person;
    $found = $people
        ->whereRaw("date_format(birthdate, \"{$year}-%m-%d\") between \"{$start}\" and \"{$end}\"")
        ->get();
```

Yay! I have the results I'm looking for!

Here's my completed code:

```php
    $now = (new \Carbon\Carbon());
    $year = $now->year;
    $start = '2013-01-01';
    $end = '2013-01-30';
    $str = "date_format(birthdate, \"{$year}-%m-%d\")";

    $people = new Person;
    $found = $people
        ->whereRaw("$str between \"{$start}\" and \"{$end}\"")
        ->orderBy(DB::raw($str))
        ->get(array('*', DB::raw("{$str} as anniversary")));

    var_dump($found->toArray());
```



Saturday, 21 September 2013
====================================
Working on authentication...

I wanted to use a couple of packages called Confide and Entrust, but it looks like the latter isn't compatible with php 5.3, which I'll be using for the forseeable future. Going with Confide instead.

Codeception doesn't seem to handle laravel auth filters. I can just pull up the page, even though I have a filter in place to require logging in first. I do wonder if that's just a test-mode thing. Everything else seems to be working with my filters.

If that's the case, how can I test my filters? I need to make sure they're working, and that would be best with automatic tests. Different users will have different permissions...

Hmmm.... They aren't working in phpunit, either. Why???

Ahhh.... Filters are ignored during the unit tests. Test the action itself, then the filter, and then test that the action has that filter. Putting filters into a separate class will allow you to test them properly. OK. Not sure how to do that... but it's not going to be critical.
https://github.com/laravel/framework/issues/766

You can also enable filters for a specific test like so:

```php
    public function testRedirectionWorks()
    {
        Route::enableFilters();
        $response = $this->call('GET', '/');
        $this->assertEquals(302, $response->getStatusCode());

        $this->client->followRedirect();
        $response = $this->client->getResponse();
        $this->assertEquals(200, $response->getStatusCode());
        $this->assertContains('login', $response->getContent());
        Route::disableFilters();
    }
```

Upgrading php
---------------
I've been having more and more issues related to my version of php. Ubuntu LTS 12.04 includes php 5.3, but 5.5 is out, now. Let's install that on my personal dev machine; we can put it on the staging machine later.

    sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ondrej/php5
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install php5

Running codeception, I get:

> [Exception]
> 
> DateTime::__construct(): It is not safe to rely on the system's timezone settings. You are *required* to use the date.timezone setting or the date_default_timezone_set() function. In case you used any of those methods and you are still getting this warning, you most likely misspelled the timezone identifier. We selected the timezone 'UTC' for now, but please set date.timezone to select your timezone.                               

Ahhh... This is a php error, solved by adding this to the php.ini file:

    date.timezone = Pacific/Honolulu

Doh! And my apache configuration seems to have broken. Every virtual domain is now going to the default page....

/etc/apache2/apache2.conf includes this line:

    IncludeOptional sites-enabled/*.conf

My files don't have a .conf extension. Are they being ignored?

Yes. I renamed kdb.dev to kdb.dev.conf, and it started working. Kind of. It's giving me a Forbidden error (no permission) on every page...

    apache2 -S

... shows a configuration syntax check. In this case, I'm geting an error:

> [core:warn] [pid 19576] AH00111: Config variable ${APACHE_LOG_DIR} is not defined
> AH00526: Syntax error on line 74 of /etc/apache2/apache2.conf:
> Invalid Mutex directory in argument file:${APACHE_LOCK_DIR}

This might be because apache doesn't want to be loaded, except as a service...

The error I'm getting from /var/log/apache2/error.log is this:

> [authz_core:error] [pid 19855] [client 127.0.0.1:40370] AH01630: client denied by server configuration: /home/joel/projects/web/kdbl/current/public/people

There are some instructions about uprading from apache 2.2 to apache2.4 here:
https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/upgrading.html

> 2.2 configuration:
> Order allow,deny
> Allow from all

> 2.4 configuration:
> Require all granted

easy enough... and it works! (also have to add + to some entries...)



Sunday, 22 September 2013
====================================
Working on testing... The point of using an IoC container is to make things more testable. So, I have a couple of classes:

    DateHandler  pass in a string or object; 
                 it internally uses a Carbon object; 
                 returns formatted values

I think that it's pretty much locked to Carbon, and doesn't make sense in isolation. I have copied a couple of Carbon's constructors, and use them internally... Carbon is internal to this class.

    Person      Uses a DateHandler object for some values. 

I would love to be able to separate out the DateHandler, so we don't actually need it for testing. How to do that?

I created a DateHandlerInterface... Can I bind to the interface? 

In aliases, I've included:

        'KDate' => 'Kalani\Views\DateHandler\DateHandlerInterface',

I've also included this line at the beginning of my routes file:

App::bind(
    'Kalani\Views\DateHandler\DateHandlerInterface',
    'Kalani\Views\DateHandler\DateHandler'
);

I'm getting an error:

> PHP Fatal error:  Cannot instantiate interface Kalani\Views\DateHandler\DateHandlerInterface in /home/joel/projects/web/kdbl/2013-08-09/app/database/seeds/testing/PeopleTableSeeder.php on line 11

Hmmm.... Send out a request for help?

Aloha!

I would like to decouple a Person class from a utility class called DateHandler, so that I can mock the values the date handler should return and test the Person class on its own. This is a simple object, but one of ten or so that I can see ultimately using in my Person class, so I'd rather not pass them all in via the constructor. My main classes look like this:

[code]
class Person extends Eloquent
{
    public function setBirthdateAttribute($birthdate)
    {
        $this->attributes['birthdate'] = new \KDate($birthdate);
    }

    public function getBirthdateAttribute($value)
    {
        return new \KDate($value);
    }

    public function getAgeAttribute()
    {
        return $this->birthdate->yearsAgo();
    }
}
[/code]


< ?php namespace Kalani\Support\DateHandler;

use Carbon\Carbon;

class DateHandler
{
    protected $date;

    public function __construct($time=Null, $tz=null)
    {
        $this->date = new Carbon($time, $tz);
    }

    public function yearsAgo($asOfDate=Null)
    {
        return $this->date->diffInYears(new Carbon($asOfDate));
    }
[/code]

In app.php, I set up an alias to the class:

[code]
'KDate' => 'Kalani\Support\DateHandler\DateHandler',
[/code]

My initial test is pretty simple:

[code]
public function testIntantiateDate()
{
    $fullName = 'Kalani\Support\DateHandler\DateHandler';

    //check the standard KDate alias (from app/config/app.php)
    $test1 = new KDate;
    $this->assertEquals($fullName, get_class($test1));    // this works

    $mock = \Mockery::mock('MockDate');
    $this->app->instance('KDate', $mock);
    $test2 = new KDate;

    $this->assertNotEquals($fullName, get_class($test2));    // this does not work
[/code]

We can theoretically swap out alias definitions, correct?

Any examples on the correct way to do that?

I tried creating a DateHandlerInterface, and set DateHandler to implement it. In app/config/app.php, I set the alias up like this:

[code]
'KDate' => 'Kalani\Support\DateHandler\DateHandlerInterface',
[/code]

I also bound my class to the interface like so:

[code]
$this->app->bind(           // or App::bind
    'Kalani\Support\DateHandler\DateHandlerInterface',
    'Kalani\Support\DateHandler\DateHandler'
);
[/code]

I tried putting this in a service provider, in routes.php, and in the test function itself, but got an error in each case when actually running the code:

[quote]
PHP Fatal error:  Cannot instantiate interface Kalani\Support\DateHandler\DateHandlerInterface
[/quote]


Facade
--------------
I tried creating a facade, but I really don't understand them at this point, and it didn't really get anywhere. One issue with facades is that we can't include startup parameters, and I need to be able to pass in a requested date.


Test Stub
---------------
This is an interesting idea... I'm loading a test stub, like so:

```php
class MiscTest extends \TestCase
{
    protected function setMockAlias($class, $alias='TestStub')
    {
        $loader = \Illuminate\Foundation\AliasLoader::getInstance();
        $loader->alias($class, $alias);
    }
}

class TestStub
{
    public $mock;

    public function __construct()
    {
        $this->mock = \Mockery::mock('TestStubMock');
    }

    public function __get($value)
    {
        return $this->mock->$value;
    }

    public function __call($method, $args)
    {
        return $this->mock->$method($args);
    }
}
```

Hmmmm... This will correctly swap out the alias... but how can I change the mock? I can't seem to reach it when I need it...

