Monday, 30 September 2013
==========================================
I just found out how `php artisan down` works. It creates a file called 'down' to app/storage/meta. If that file exists, you're in maintenance mode. Simple!


The site is basically working in some simple ways, right now. I can add records easily enough. I'm thinking about using events, but haven't ever looked at them before, and don't really know how they work.

I tried putting this in several places...

```php
    Event::listen('eloquent.creating', function($event) {
        var_dump($event);
        Log::info('CREATING SOMETHING FOR JOEL!!!! --------------------');
    });
```

I've tried it in the App::before function in filters.php; I've tried it by itself in filters.php; I've tried it in a service provider; I tried adding it to the bottom of start/global.php and start/local.php. No dice.

Maybe it's the event that I'm looking for. This works (at the top of filters.php):

```php
    Event::listen('*', function($event) {
        if (is_string($event)) {
            var_dump($event);
        } else {
            var_dump(get_class($event));
        }
    });
```

Hmmm... It also works at the bottom of global.php, but not local.php. What events is it responding to? I'm trying to get the list, like this:

```php
    Event::listen('*', function($key, $event) {
        if (is_string($event)) {
            var_dump($event);
        } elseif (is_object($event)) {
            var_dump(get_class($event));
        } else {
            var_dump($event);
        }
    });
```

And, from that, I'm getting interesting output:

    string 'eloquent.saving: Kalani\KWeb\Models\Object' (length=42)
    string 'eloquent.creating: Kalani\KWeb\Models\Object' (length=44)
    array (size=2)
      0 => string 'P' (length=1)
      1 => string 'A' (length=1)
    string 'eloquent.created: Kalani\KWeb\Models\Object' (length=43)
    string 'eloquent.saved: Kalani\KWeb\Models\Object' (length=41)
    string 'eloquent.saving: Kalani\KWeb\Models\Page' (length=40)
    string 'called creating function...' (length=27)
    string 'eloquent.creating: Kalani\KWeb\Models\Page' (length=42)
    array (size=3)
      0 => string 'foo' (length=3)
      1 => string 'bar' (length=3)
      2 => int 81
    string 'eloquent.created: Kalani\KWeb\Models\Page' (length=41)
    string 'eloquent.saved: Kalani\KWeb\Models\Page' (length=39)
    array (size=1)
      0 => int 81
    string 'PagesController.store ok' (length=24)

So, I can see them. If I try listening for creating, or created, or eloquent.creating, though, I don't get anything. 

Wow! This worked, though!

```php
    Event::listen('creating: home', function($key, $event) {
        var_dump('CREATING FOR JOEL');
    });
```

And it also works with wildcards! I think I've got it!

```php
    Event::listen('eloquent.creating*', function($event) {
        var_dump('CREATING FOR JOEL');
    });
```




Tuesday, 1 October 2013
==========================================
I've spent some time today reorganizing the directory structure of the web site. Definitely loving TDD! If anything breaks, it pinpoints it immediately.

Now, working with a new way of handling DataTables. It seems to be fairly nice, and does a lot of things for me.

https://github.com/Chumper/Datatable

To make it work, I needed to include this in composer.json:

    "chumper/datatable": "dev-master"

This, in the providers array of app.php:

    'Chumper\Datatable\DatatableServiceProvider',

This, in the aliases array of app.php:

    'DataTable' => 'Chumper\Datatable\Facades\Datatable',

I have these routes:

```php
    Route::group(array('prefix'=>'node'), function(){
        Route::resource('pages', 'PagesController');

    Route::group(array('prefix'=>'api'), function() {
        Route::get('pages', array('as'=>'api.pages', 'uses'=>'PagesController@getDataTable'));
```

My PagesController object has standard CRUD methods, but also includes this:

```php
    public function getDataTable()
    {
        return DataTable::collection($this->repo->index())
            ->showColumns('id', 'title')
            ->make();        
    }
```

The PagesController::index method creates a view that includes this:

```php
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/assets/datatables/css/jquery.dataTables.css">
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/js/jquery.js"></script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/datatables/js/jquery.dataTables.js"></script>

    {{ DataTable::table()
        ->addColumn('id','title')
        ->setUrl(route('api.pages'))
        ->render() }}
```

(the javascript needs to be ABOVE the DataTable command)

And, boom! Good to go! There are a few issues with this. One is that it's not inserting links to the page. I think I can do that manually, though.

Next, I need to be able to capture events. How can I see if something is clicked on?

```js
    $('.dataTable').on('click', function(){
        console.log('clicked');
    });
```

That works when I enter it in the console, but not as part of my site. I suspect it's because it gets called before the dataTable object gets created...

In the view, you can setup your own custom layout. This is the default:

    DataTable::table->render($view = Null)
    // renders datatable/src/views/template.blade.php

Copy that file, and modify it as much as you'd like. For instance, these work, when put into an adapted view file:

```js
   $('.{{$class}}').hover(function() {
        $(this).css('cursor', 'pointer');
    });
    $('.{{$class}}').on('click', 'tr', function() {
        console.log($(this));
    });
```

Hmmm.... How do I get at the guts of an object? The first time that $(this) is called, it writes some nice things to the console, things I'd really like to pick up:

> [tr.odd, context: tr.odd, constructor: function, init: function, selector: "", jquery: "1.8.2"…]
> 0: tr.odd
>     _DT_RowIndex: 2
>     accessKey: ""
>     align: ""
>     attributes: NamedNodeMap
>     baseURI: "http://kweb/node/pages"

When I try to select it in any way, it gives me a much smaller object:

> <tr class=​"odd">​
>     <td class=​" sorting_1">​52​</td>​
>     <td class>​Guest Information​</td>​
> </tr>​

How can I get the more complete object? Ultimately, by capturing the mouse event...

```js
    $('.{{$class}}').on('click', 'tr', function(mouseEvent) {
        $id = mouseEvent.currentTarget.children[0].innerHTML;
        $url = mouseEvent.currentTarget.baseURI;
        document.location.href = $url + "/" + $id + "/edit";
    });
```

I'm now hitting the limits of what I know how to do in codeception. No idea how to test this one...




Wednesday, 2 October 2013
==========================================
I'm noticing that codeception is loading a lot of new data into my test database. Tests really shouldn't affect each other. Can I set it to re-load data?

I put this in codeception.yml:

    modules:
        config:
            Db:
                dsn: 'mysql:host=<host>;dbname=<db>'
                user: '<user>'
                password: '<pw>'
                dump: app/tests/codeception/_data/dump.sql

I also enabled the Db module in `acceptance.suite.yml`, then ran `codecept build`, to rebuild the WebGuy class. Run it again, and it's working. A couple of issues: first, it's much slower. Second, if I manually put something in for testing, it gets wiped out. I suppose I could use a different `dbname` value for codeception testing...

Changing the dsn to `dsn: 'sqlite::memory:` didn't work. It created a file called :memory: in my root directory, and couldn't pull in seeded data that I generated with mysqldump.

I created a database connection for codeception:

    'codeception'  => array(
        'driver'   => 'sqlite',
        'database' => __DIR__.'/../tests/codeception/_data/db.sqlite',
        'prefix'   => '',
    ),

How can I get dump data from that?
I can install sqlite on my computer (works in Linux; unknown on Windows)

    php artisan migrate:refresh --seed --database=codeception
    sqlite3 app/tests/codeception/_data/db.sqlite .dump > app/tests/codeception/_data/dump.sql

Yes! Much faster!

Problem: it runs it in a browser, so we don't know who's running it...

To make it work, we could pass an argument from the browser... Then this trick would work:

```php
    public function createApplication()
    {
        $unitTesting = true;
        $testEnvironment = 'testing';
        if(in_array('foo', $_SERVER['argv'])) {
            $testEnvironment = 'foo';
        }
        return require __DIR__.'/../../bootstrap/start.php';
    }
```

It will read all configuration settings from the foo directory.
Run phpunit with the foo configuration by entering:

    $ phpunit -d foo

Codeception might be able to work the same way... 

I don't see it as an option, but that doesn't mean it's not possible.

Something in codeception sends the arguments to the server. It may be near the code I've already modified...

I'm having a problem with this installation in Windows, though. It's not running any tests at all. Returns "no such table" to everything. I wonder if it doesn't know the dsn, or what to do with the dsn... 

    dsn: 'sqlite:app/tests/codeception/_data/db.sqlite'
    dump: app/tests/codeception/_data/dump.sql
    user: ''
    password: ''

Hmmmm... Actually running a functional test, it's using the same connector as the tests connection. And, (known issue), it can't handle the :memory: database.

Can I change the connection, somehow?

Hmmmm... the Laravel4 driver module includes some interesting things. One thing, is that it sets         $testEnvironment = 'testing';
https://github.com/Codeception/Codeception/blob/master/src/Codeception/Module/Laravel4.php

So, we're seeing the testing environment. What if the Db module writes the data to the file (which I'm pretty confident that it does), and then Laravel tells it not to use it? We need to be able to tell Laravel to use the provided file...

Hmmmm....

Depressed. It's not working. Maybe we revert changes and start over?

Maybe look at things the opposite way? I know that I can run an arbitrary environment name, testing from the command line, and I know how to do that. What if the standard was set to the sqlite location on disk, and I were to enter the :memory: version each time?

Or, just change the TestCase file in my tests folder to set $testEnvironment = 'test-foo';

And that works perfectly!

Next, I've been having a problem with a codeception functional test. Basically, the issue is that I'm trying to delete a record, and it's not able to pick up that I'm doing that. Why not? Because I'm running a javascript that creates an invisible form, puts the link into it, and sends a DELETE message to the server when it's clicked. The reason that I go to all that trouble is because browsers still can't send a DELETE message...

In the test, it's not running any javascript, so it won't send the delete method. It will just return to the page it's on. The restful route for delete is page/#, just like the route for show, but with different methods.

Hmmmmm.... zombiejs?  (or phantomjs, which may be more active)

    $ sudo apt-get install python-software-properties
    $ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:chris-lea/node.js
    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo apt-get install nodejs nodejs-dev npm
    $ node --version
    v0.6.2
    $ npm --version
    1.0.106
    $ npm install zombie

(and move it to /user/local/lib/node-modules)

adding this to .bashrc:

    export NODE_PATH="/usr/local/lib/node_modules/"                           

no idea how to actually run it, though...

Let's try downloading phantomjs

Easy to install... put a link to the executable in my path...

run it:

    phantomjs --webdriver 4444

Set acceptance.suite.yml to handle it:

    class_name: WebGuy
    modules:
        enabled: 
            - Selenium2
            - Db
        config:
            Selenium2:
                url: 'http://kweb/'
                port: 4444
                browser: 'phantomjs'
                capabilities:
                    unexpectedAlertBehaviour: 'accept'

Hmmm.... It just hangs when it tries loading. No idea what's up.

I don't want to get stuck on this. For right now, I can comment out the test, put a TODO on it, and come back to it later.

What I really want to do is figure out how to load pages from the old database(s).



Thursday, 3 October 2013
==========================================
Wow! Updating the global router, to add a clone method, is easy. 

First, define the class, inherited from the existing router:

```php
    < ?php namespace Kalani\KWeb\Utilities;

    use Illuminate\Routing\Router as LaravelRouter;

    class Router extends LaravelRouter
    {
        protected $resourceDefaults = array(
            'copy', 'table',
            'index', 'create', 'store', 'show', 
            'edit', 'update', 'destroy',
        );

        /**
         * Add the copy method (clones a given record)
         */
        protected function addResourceCopy($name, $base, $controller)
        {
            $uri = $this->getResourceUri($name).'/{'.$base.'}/copy';

            return $this->get($uri, $this->getResourceAction($name, $controller, 'copy'));
        }

        /**
         * Add the table method (returns something loadable by DataTables)
         */
        protected function addResourceTable($name, $base, $controller)
        {
            $action = $this->getResourceAction($name, $controller, 'table');

            return $this->get($this->getResourceUri($name).'/table', $action);
        }
    }
```

Second, add a service provider for it. This also supports the test-foo trick from yesterday:

```php
    < ?php namespace Kalani\KWeb\ServiceProviders;

    use Illuminate\Routing\RoutingServiceProvider as LaravelRoutingServiceProvider;
    use Kalani\KWeb\Utilities\Router;

    class RoutingServiceProvider extends LaravelRoutingServiceProvider 
    {
        /**
         * Register the router instance.
         *
         * @return void
         */
        protected function registerRouter()
        {
            $this->app['router'] = $this->app->share(function($app)
            {
                $router = new Router($app);

                // If the current application environment is "testing", we will disable the
                // routing filters, since they can be tested independently of the routes
                // and just get in the way of our typical controller testing concerns.
                if ($app['env'] == 'testing' || $app['env'] == 'test-foo')
                {
                    $router->disableFilters();
                }

                return $router;
            });
        }
    }
```

Third, in app.php, register the new service provider:

    'Kalani\KWeb\ServiceProviders\RoutingServiceProvider',

Boom! Like magic, it works!


Now, I'm thinking more deeply about the structure of the site. This may need to wait for a later revision, but a friend showed me the interface for Constant Contact. It's really nifty. I really like the structure of blocks on the page. Very nice use of JQueryUI... A page (mailing) is really just a collection of blocks, in a given order. Have a page made up of individually-renderable blocks, assign it some tags, and good to go. 

So, a page could have a Title block, a Text block, an image block, a table block, and so on. When you have a similar event, copy some of the relevant blocks, and drop them in somewhere else. 

Right now, for instance, there are pages in the current site with a lot of included images. This means that I'll have to search for them, and cleaning up the html might be a manual process. Yuck! I wonder if they'd go for writing text in markdown...

I really like the idea of splitting things into individually-managed blocks; definitely need to think about that for a while. Markdown or html-formatted blocks, images in a different block,  It's going to be a nice feature, but not for version 1.



Friday, 4 October 2013
==========================================
I just came up with a bash command to get a quick overview of everything available in a given directory:

for i in `find app/Kalani -type f`; do cat $i | grep -E 'namespace|class|function|interface' | grep -vE 'class=|\$class|this->app'; done




Saturday, 5 October 2013
==========================================
I think with all of the mucking around I've been doing, I may have screwed up my artisan installation... `php artisan migrate --seed` seemed to work, but there were no records in the database. Now, it just hangs.

Drop, then re-add the database. 

    php artisan migrate      works
    php artisan db:seed      says it works... but empty database?

Even stranger, mysql is reporting the correct number of records when I do `select table_name, table_rows from information_schema.tables where table_schema = '<db>';`, but looking at each individual table, they're not there...

If I enter a duplicate key, I get the correct SQL error. It's trying to add them, and thinks it succeeds, but mysql has no data.

The sqlite version works fine.

Turn on the mysql event log?

    set GLOBAL general_log='ON'

Interesting... it's getting the correct commands, just has no data.

> 5181 Prepare   insert into `slugs` (`for_oid`, `slug`) values (?, ?)
> 5181 Execute   insert into `slugs` (`for_oid`, `slug`) values ('21', 'about-us')
> 5181 Close stmt

If I manually enter something, though, the data shows up. I entered the command above, and it works fine. The only differences are:

* No `Prepare` or `Close stmt` commands
* Different job number
* `Query`, instead of `Execute` 

Weird...

Restarting mysql... and it works. Just a weird glitch.



Sunday, 6 October 2013
==========================================
I want to do something that I think Laravel doesn't handle natively. Basically, each of my major types (pages, events, workshops) should have tags associated with them. I've been thinking this would be done through the oid, and objects table, but I don't think it can handle that.

    Tag (eg, puna) -> objects (29) -> object_tags (29/21,90) -> page objects, workshop objects, etc.

It looks like, as of two days ago, Taylor is working on a MorphBelongsToMany method. I think tat basically provides the functionality that I'm looking for. That would be wonderful to have, but I don't think I can wait for completion.  

I'm finding it interesting that other people have the same ideas:
https://github.com/laravel/framework/issues/2032

 > The idea behind a polymorphic many-to-many relationship is simple. Let's take a tags table as an example. You'll probably want tags to be attached to your posts table as well as your pages table, etc... Currently you'd have to implement 2 different belongsToMany relationships on your Tag model. While this is fine as long as you only have 2 or 3 relationships, things can quickly become cumbersome if you have to attach yours tags table to a lot of other models. You also don't have a single way to check for relationships, you'd always have to check each table separately.

Ultimately, we're going to have a lot of tags, on a lot of different objects. For now, I think we'll need to do a lot of belongsToMany relationships.

