Wednesday, 6 November 2013
==================================
I just figured out how to use PhantomJS with codeception, and it works well. Yay!

Install phantomjs (I put it in a folder on my path):

    http://phantomjs.org/download.html

Run it:

    phantomjs --webdriver=4444

Tell codeception to use it. In acceptance.suite.yml:

    class_name: WebGuy
    modules:
        enabled:
            [ Selenium2 ]
        config:
            Selenium2:
                url: 'http://lkata/'
                browser: phantomjs
                capabilities:
                    unexpectedAlertBehaviour: 'accept'

It even takes screen shots when something fails. Nice!

It's failing on something that it should succeed with, though. When I click an OK button on the login dialog box, the "login" message changes to "logout". That takes a few milliseconds. Can I tell it to wait, somehow?

Yes. $I->wait($milliseconds)



Thursday, 7 November 2013
==================================
I'm having another problem with codeception. It's just stopping, not returning any errors (and the page is fine), just stuck. 

I was using an old version of codeception. Downloaded the new one, now I'm good.



Friday, 8 November 2013
===================================
Playing with flexbox today. It looks like a really powerful tool, but it's a little tricky to get the hang of (so far).

At home, it looks like I need to use the -webkit-* prefix for any flexbox setting.

Critical pieces:

```css
    html, body (and any other wrappers/containers) {
        height: 100% 
    }
    .container {
        display: -webkit-flex;
        display: flex;
    }
```

This is my html code:

```html
    <body class="container">
        <div class="box1">Box1</div>
    </body>
```

If we want to center something in the page:

```css
    .box1 {
        margin: auto;
    }
```

If we want it centered vertically, stretching from left to right:

```css
    .box1 {
        margin: auto;
        -webkit-flex: 1 1 100px;
    }
```

Center horizontally, stretch from top to bottom:

```css
    .container {
        display: -webkit-flex;
        -webkit-flex-flow: column wrap;
//        -webkit-flex-flow: column;      // box fills entire container
    }
    .box1 {
        margin: auto;
        -webkit-flex: 1 1 100px;
    }
```


Sunday, 10 November 2013
===================================
I'm playing a bit with a kata, today. Doing that, I finally figured out how to use a test database for codeception, even during acceptance tests. It's really easy...

Basically, when using phantomjs for acceptance testing, we'll want to set the environment to 'testing' whenever it hits a database. Add this to bootstrap/start.php:

    if (isset($_SERVER['HTTP_USER_AGENT']) && 
        strpos($_SERVER['HTTP_USER_AGENT'], 'PhantomJS')) 
    {
        $env = 'testing';
    }

Boom. Done.

Make sure to set permissions; otherwise tests that write to the database will fail. www-user should be able to write to the sqlite database file, and the folder holding the sqlite database file.

Next thing: I'm not sure that I'm gaining any value in unit testing my controllers. I'm entering this:

```php
    public function testIndexReceivesData()
    {
        \View::shouldReceive('make->with')->once();
        $this->model->shouldReceive('all')->once();

        $this->test->index();
    }
```

...which is all well and good, but I can see it from a functional test, too, and not be so reliant on the actual function calls. (for instance, what if I wanted to use paginate, rather than all?)

A functional test would look like this:

```php
    public function testIndexWorks()
    {
        $this->call('GET', '/');
        $this->assertResponseOk();
        $this->assertViewHas('items');
    }
```

These give me real value. They also work with view composers (except the last line, but there's a solution for that at http://stackoverflow.com/questions/16607310/laravel-controller-layout-testing).

Likewise, this, for saving a record:

    public function testSaveRecord()
    {
        $this->call('POST', 'todos', array('new'=>'test item'));
    }

Eloquent will tell me if my model is having problems (eg, mass assignment), or if there are any other problems. One line, and it's easy, but a functional test, rather than a unit test.

Also, I find that, when I use the Db model in acceptance tests, WebGuy has access to seeInDatabase. Not something that an end-user would be able to do, but it means that I don't have to write an extra functional test to do the same thing...

Hmmmm....

It's probably better to let everything have its own logical scope, though. So, we'll set up two tests:

```php
    public function testAddItem(TestGuy $I) 
    {
        $I->am('a user');
        $I->amOnPage('/');

        $I->dontSeeInDatabase('todos', array('name'=>'new todo'));
        $I->submitForm('#todo-form', array('new'=>'new todo'));
        $I->seeInDatabase('todos', array('name'=>'new todo'));    
    }

    public function testAddItem(WebGuy $I)
    {
        $I->am('a user');
        $I->amOnPage('/');

        $I->dontSee('new todo', 'li');
        $I->fillField('new', 'new todo');
        $I->click('New');
        $I->see('new todo', 'li');
    }
```

At least for my simple kata, I see that most of the files that have been changed are autogenerated, or copied in. Here is the list of changes:

    joel@development:~/projects/web/kata/today$ git diff 5196eac --stat
    app/Kalani/Todo/Controllers/TodosController.php    |   35 +
    app/Kalani/Todo/Interfaces/TodoInterface.php       |    7 +
    app/Kalani/Todo/Models/Todo.php                    |    9 +
    .../ServiceProviders/RoutingServiceProvider.php    |   25 +
    app/config/app.php                                 |    1 +
    app/config/database.php                            |   30 +-
    app/config/test-foo/cache.php                      |   20 +
    app/config/test-foo/database.php                   |   15 +
    app/config/test-foo/session.php                    |   21 +
    app/config/testing/database.php                    |   16 +
    app/controllers/BaseController.php                 |    6 +-
    .../2013_11_10_181000_create_todos_table.php       |   34 +
    app/database/seeds/DatabaseSeeder.php              |    2 +-
    app/database/seeds/TodosTableSeeder.php            |   19 +
    app/routes.php                                     |   18 +-
    app/tests/ExampleTest.php                          |   17 -
    app/tests/FunctionalTest.php                       |   20 +
    .../Tests/Todo/Controllers/TodosControllerTest.php |   37 +
    app/tests/TestCase.php                             |   10 +-
    app/tests/codeception/_bootstrap.php               |    2 +
    app/tests/codeception/_data/db.sqlite              |  Bin 0 -> 4096 bytes
    app/tests/codeception/_data/db.sqlite_snapshot     |  Bin 0 -> 4096 bytes
    app/tests/codeception/_data/dump.sql               |    9 +
    app/tests/codeception/_helpers/CodeHelper.php      |    8 +
    app/tests/codeception/_helpers/TestHelper.php      |    8 +
    app/tests/codeception/_helpers/WebHelper.php       |    8 +
    .../codeception/_log/HomeCest.testAddItem.fail.png |  Bin 0 -> 3057 bytes
    .../_log/HomeCest.testAddItem.page.debug.html      |    1 +
    .../_log/HomeCest.testDeleteItem.page.debug.html   |   24 +
    .../_log/HomeCest.testHomePage.fail.png            |  Bin 0 -> 30633 bytes
    .../_log/WebHomeCest.testAddItem.fail.png          |  Bin 0 -> 2865 bytes
    .../_log/WebHomeCest.testDeleteItem.fail.png       |  Bin 0 -> 4332 bytes
    app/tests/codeception/_log/acceptance-2013-11-10   |  807 ++
    app/tests/codeception/_log/functional-2013-11-10   |  169 +
    app/tests/codeception/acceptance.suite.yml         |   20 +
    app/tests/codeception/acceptance/WebGuy.php        | 2591 ++++++
    app/tests/codeception/acceptance/WebHomeCest.php   |   45 +
    app/tests/codeception/acceptance/_bootstrap.php    |    2 +
    app/tests/codeception/functional.suite.yml         |   15 +
    app/tests/codeception/functional/HomeCest.php      |   35 +
    app/tests/codeception/functional/TestGuy.php       | 2574 ++++++
    app/tests/codeception/functional/_bootstrap.php    |    2 +
    app/tests/codeception/unit.suite.yml               |    8 +
    app/tests/codeception/unit/CodeGuy.php             |   30 +
    app/tests/codeception/unit/_bootstrap.php          |    2 +
    app/views/template.blade.php                       |   13 +
    app/views/todo.blade.php                           |   42 +
    app/views/todo2.blade.php                          |   17 +
    bin/prepTestDB                                     |    9 +
    bootstrap/start.php                                |    9 +-
    codeception.yml                                    |   18 +
    composer.json                                      |    4 +
    public/js/jquery.js                                | 8837 ++++++++++++++++++++
    53 files changed, 15601 insertions(+), 50 deletions(-)

I think I'll need to remember to eliminate anything called _* from git... Maybe everything from app/tests/codeception/* except for the actual *Cest.php and *Cept.php files... and .yml files. Everything else is auto-generated...

I'm really not sure what to do about things like jquery. It would be nice to have some way to say 'go get that', rather than having it as part of my repo. Ideally, I'd like things that I work with directly in my repo, and ignore everything else. Not sure how to do that, though...


Artisan Routes
----------------
There's a command in Artisan, `php artisan routes`, which shows all of the registered routes in the system. So, that exists. How can I write a tester to look at every registered route, and make sure it exists?

    $routes = App::make('router')->getRoutes();
    foreach($routes as $key=>$route) {
        echo $key . '    ' . head($route->getMethods()) 
            . '    ' . $route->getPath() 
            . '    ' . $route->getAction() 
            . PHP_EOL;
    }

returns things like:

    .home    GET    /    
    todos.index    GET    /todos    TodosController@index
    todos.create    GET    /todos/create    TodosController@create
    todos.store    POST    /todos    TodosController@store

