Monday, 18 November 2013
===================================
I'm really frustrated with codeception, again. Once again, my site is working fine, but acceptance tests are failing. No idea why. I've set my data source for the live tests to the same as those for the codeception tests. 

One issue, I guess, is that I changed to Redirect::back, which doesn't currently accept a default value. I need a new version of that...

This is one way to fall back to a safe URL:

    return Request::header('referer') ? Redirect::back() : Redirect::action('MyController@method');

It doesn't always work, though. Not sure why. This seems to:

    protected function getRedirect()
    {
        $referer = Request::header('referer');

        return $referer ? Redirect::to($referer) : Redirect::route('home');
    }

The next issue is that it takes a little while to return responses, so I'm constantly having to enter $I->wait(100) (or larger numbers).

There is a delay option in the Selenium2 setup. If I set the delay to 400, everything works. The downside is that entering it makes the tests take significantly longer. Acceptance tests are already very slow. :-(  Not sure if it's worth it...



Wednesday, 20 November 2013
==================================
Working on inline (ajax) entering for a comment...



Thursday, 21 November 2013
==================================
Trying to test HR dashboard via codeception.

I found out how to set a user in a codeception test. Call:

```php
    protected function setUser($username)
    {
        $model = Kalani\KDB\Models\User::where('username', $username)->first();
        Auth::setUser($model);
    }
```

I'm finding it easier to work with a single data source for dev and codeception tests. That may change, later, as we look at a larger picture. To do this, in app\config\local\database.php, I include:

    return array(

        'default' => 'codeception',

        'connections' => array(
            'codeception'  => array(
                'driver'   => 'sqlite',
                'database' => app_path() . '/tests/codeception/_data/db.sqlite',
                'prefix'   => '',
            ),

Interestingly, though, now all of my codeception tests are failing. 

When I attempt to go to a page, I get an error 'Trying to get property of non-object.' What is it looking for?

    @extends('templates/master')

    @section('content')
        <h1>{{ $repo->config('name') . ' List' }}</h1>

        <div class="console">
        <p><a href="{{route('objects.create', $repo->config('type'))}}">Create a new {{ strtolower($repo->config('name')) }}</a></p>
        </div>

    {{ DataTable::table()
        ->addColumn($repo->indexFields())
        ->setUrl(route('objects.table', $repo->config('type')))
        ->render('admin/tables/datatable') }}
    @stop

If I swap out templates/master with templates.blank, it works. Something with the master template, then... 

I tracked it down to this line:

    @include('admin/menu')

It looks like it's dying here:

    &nbsp;{{ Auth::user()->name }}&nbsp;

And, in User.php:

    return $this->person->first_name;

So, if I change that to `return 'foo';`, I now still have some failures, but no errors.

Some of the failures were caused by my new login method. I didn't log out after logging in...

```php
    protected function setUser($username=Null)
    {
        if ($username) {
            $model = Kalani\KDB\Models\User::where('username', $username)->first();
            return Auth::setUser($model);
        }
        
        Auth::logout();
    }
```

That's all good, now. How do we serve up different dashboard pages to different users?

I'll revisit this.


### Project template / generator

Using my generator class, I get an error immediately upon creating a resource. It gives me "PHP Fatal error:  Call to undefined method Eloquent::unguard()"

If I comment out the offending line, Class 'Way\Tests\Factory' not found...

Add to composer.json:

    "way/laravel-test-helpers": "dev-master"

Getting lots of NotFoundHttpException errors...

Add the routes:

    Route::resource('reservations', 'ReservationsController');

In testShow, getting an undefined property: name. That would be correct...

Changed the database in local/database.php to:

    'database' => app_path().'/tests/codeception/_data/db.sqlite',

Getting a readonly database... 

    chmod o+w app/tests/codeception/_data/
    chmod o+w app/tests/codeception/_data/db.sqlite

All in all, not a bad setup, but it can be a bit better.

I've made some changes. Re-pulling... Then:

    chmod -R go+w app/storage/*
    bin/prepTestDB                  // update this...
    
Add this to Providers array:

    'Kalani\Generator\GeneratorServiceProvider', 

That worked.

    php artisan generate:template --args="obj:reservation"

Everything is working well.

I just found out that I can create a separate providers array in app/config/local/app.php, and just put in one item; everything else still loads. Yay!

After changing the template to support that, and starting at 11:04pm...
I have a complete, fully functional todo app by 11:06.

I had to do a few things manually... 

    chmod -R go+w app/storage/*
    php artisan generate:template --args="obj:reservation"
    bin/prepTestDB
    in routes.php, add a route
    in my test file, modify the setUp function to include my fields
    composer dump-autoload

That's it. Starting at 11:30, I have a fully functional todo app by 11:33.

Next, I know that git deployments work, but I'm curious to see if I can deploy an app quickly, just with ftp/ssh...

Hmmm... The problem is that laravel is big. Almost 130MB. Ouch. symfony, doctrine, and swiftmailer are all huge.

OK, git deployment, it is.

DreamHost doesn't have composer. Install it...

Hmmm... It says my php is too old... 5.2.17??

The DreamHost panel lets me change my version of php (per domain). Interesting... It also lets me change my root folder. So, I changed it to test.kalani.com/test/public.

    alias 'php=/usr/local/php54/bin/php'    // gets me a modern php

Next issue: The phar extension is missing.

But in configuration, it has --enable-phar=shared. 

    $ mkdir -p ~/.php/5.4
    $ echo "extension = phar.so" >> ~/.php/5.4/phprc
    $ echo "suhosin.executor.include.whitelist = phar" >> ~/.php/5.4/phprc
    $ php -m | grep Phar

All good, so far

    $ curl -s https://getcomposer.org/installer | php -- --install-dir=~/bin
    $ chmod u+x ~/bin/composer.phar
    $ composer.phar

But composer.phar isn't running. It will run if I use php ~/bin/composer.phar, though...

I created app/config/production/app.php:

    return array(
        'debug' => false,
        'url'   => '<>',
    );

Also created app/config/production/database.php, with a hostname from another site. I hope that works... It's going to take a few hours to propogate.

And it looks like I pulled my master branch, but all of the latest stuff is on dev...


Friday, 22 November 2013
============================
OK, this is weird.... I tried accessing my test.kalani.com page this morning, and it wasn't reachable. It was trying to reach its old ip address. When I ping kumuwai.com, I get:

    PING kumuwai.com (173.236.145.80) 56(84) bytes of data.
    64 bytes from austinsolarbroker.com (173.236.145.80): ...

Very strange. That's the correct IP address, but not the correct domain name. I've never even heard of that domain. If I ping it by name, I get:

    PING austinsolarbroker.com (50.62.121.172) 56(84) bytes of data.
    64 bytes from ip-50-62-121-172.ip.secureserver.net (50.62.121.172): ...

At the moment, pinging dev.kalani.com and clinic.kalani.com gives me nothing. I started a live chat session with dreamhost, but they haven't come on yet. test.kalani.com came back up, though...

They're all new enough connections that maybe the dns entries haven't percolated throughout the system, yet?


### Unable to test a model?

Very weird. In a very simple app, I'm trying to run a test. The test is just:

    $item = Todo::find(1);

The test runner is telling me that Todo has no method find, but it should be inheriting it from Eloquent. WTF???

    var_dump(get_class_methods(get_parent_class($this)));

Hmmm... gives me nothing. No methods at all. 

Interesting. If I comment out the alias to Eloquent in app/config/app.php, it still works. Well, doesn't work, but doesn't work in the same way. If I rename the parent object, it doesn't work, even if I also rename the alias in app.php. Weird.

Also, if I extend from Illuminate\Database\Eloquent\Model, instead of from Eloquent, it works fine. 

Which means that somehow, I redefined Eloquent. There are some tests in which Eloquent is mocked... but I'm not running them. Hmmm.... How can I tell where it's getting it?

    $class = new ReflectionClass('Eloquent');
    var_dump($class->getFileName());

> string(113) ".../vendor/mockery/mockery/library/Mockery/Container.php(401) : eval()'d code"

So, I am running a mocked version of Eloquent.

If I comment it out, in tests that I am not running, I get an error message:

    ReflectionException: Class Eloquent does not exist

This was because I commented out 'Eloquent' from the aliases array. Uncomment it, and the test works correctly.

So, the reason that my class became untestable was that Eloquent was redefined as a mock object. If that happens in any class, it occurs everywhere, and functional tests won't work. (basically, the first time that php sees a definition of Eloquent, it runs set_alias on it; it sees it as a mock, so sets the alias as a mock. This is the reason we use Facades, to begin with).

Oh, right... except that Eloquent isn't a facade.

If I move it to the setUp method, instead of the constructor, things start working, but I start getting errors like:

> Exception: SQLSTATE[23000]: Integrity constraint violation: 19 todos.created_at may not be NULL (SQL: insert into "todos" ("id", "name") values (?, ?)) (Bindings: array (

... which means it's trying to hit a database. Which, of course, makes sense in a functional test.

It occurs to me that I could split tests into two parts--unit tests, in which things like Eloquent would be mocked, and functional tests, in which they wouldn't. These would have to live in two completely separate worlds, similar to how I'm doing codeception and phpunit tests now. Maybe different test suites in phpunit.xml?

I'll think more about that later.


Saturday, 23 November 2013
============================
I just found out about Jennifer Dewalt, and her 180 websites in 180 days project. (http://jenniferdewalt.com/) What an awesome idea! I kind of want to do that... Kind of a cross between katas and tests, for lots of different technologies.

What if I were to focus on one different thing per day, either client-side or server-side, as a 100-day challenge? Simple things; less than an hour per day (unless I have a really slow day, and want to explore something in depth). Interesting!

Let's start right now, with just a simple home page. I can pull a copy of Laravel, set up a basic index page, create a git project for it, and upload it to my server. Simple, but a nice starting point.

Where to put it? I don't want it to conflict with mini, but not with kata, either... Let's just call it daily. :-)

Created a new git repository, and a new subdomain (daily.kumuwai.com); loaded things up. I'm having a problem with imagick on dreamhost...

It looks like the .so file is here:
/usr/local/php54/lib/php/extensions/no-debug-non-zts-20100525/imagick.so

Let's try this:
    
    cd .php/5.4
    ln -s /usr/local/php54/lib/php/extensions/no-debug-non-zts-20100525/ extensions
    echo "extension=$HOME/.php/5.4/extensions/imagick.so" >> phprc

> PHP Warning:  Module 'imagick' already loaded in Unknown on line 0

... but then it tells me it can't load it. Strange...



Sunday, 24 November 2013
============================
Today, I think loading test functionality, and a very simple roman numeral page.

It's taking longer than an hour today, because I wanted to load my test harness, so that full testing of everything will be possible.

That was fun! But took way too long today. I think that's mostly because I was setting up the test harness.

