Monday, 25 November 2013
=================================
I'm getting to the point that I want to explore having different screens, elements, and objects for different people. This includes:

    * Different dashboards (unique dashboard per department)
    * Widget-level permissions and visibility
    * Item-level permissions and visibility


Tuesday, 26 November 2013
===============================
I'm having a problem mocking Auth. Particularly, I'm trying to mock a failed login. I'm trying:

    Auth::shouldReceive('attempt')->andReturn(False);

... but that doesn't work. I'm getting an error: 

    PDOException: SQLSTATE[HY000]: General error: 1 no such table: users

I haven't created a users table, yet. Theoretically, by using a mock, I shouldn't have to. It shouldn't be touching the database. But it's not working... :-(

It did work as soon as I created a user table, though, even though I didn't put anything in the user table. 

Next thing: In the live version, I can see the phrase 'There were errors' when the user enters invalid credentials. In the codeception functional test, it doesn't do that. It's just the standard page. What do I have to do to get codeception to redirect with the correct information?

Hmmmm... It looks like it's not picking up the session data... The default session driver was set to array, so that might affect it. I changed it to 'native', though, and it's still doing it.

In my controller, if I use var_dump to show the contents of \Session::all(), it doesn't show it at all in the codeception debug page. 

Actually, it won't var_dump anything... In the test, those might be going to the console, rather than the html file. We don't see anything sent to the console, because it's rewriting things on the fly...

This works, to write things to the Laravel log file:

```php
    public function getLogin()
    {
        \Log::info(var_export(\Session::all(),true));
        $this->layout->content = View::make('days.004.login')
            ->with('username','');
    }
```

In the standard unit test, it doesn't show the redirect. It wouldn't, because we have $this->client->followRedirects = false, by default. We can see that it has a redirect, though.

In the codeception test, it looks like it has the data it needs. For some reason, in the view, it's not translating the data correctly. 

So, Session::get('errors') works, but $errors does not. It looks like $errors is an empty variable. How are the local variables created in Laravel?

In login.blade.php, above the @section('content') line, I can define $errors. It really does work, but it's not pretty. There is something about the codeception tests that don't run... something. Something gets skipped, and the test doesn't work.

I don't really understand it, but I have a workaround.



### Column Names
I just found an interesting way to get column/field names from the table used by an Eloquent model. This is from http://laravelsnippets.com/snippets/get-all-columns-names-from-a-eloquent-model-2:

class BaseModel extends \Eloquent 
{
    public function getColumnsNames()
    {
        $connection = DB::connection();
        $connection->getSchemaBuilder();
         
        $grammar = $connection->getSchemaGrammar();
        $table = $connection->getTablePrefix().$this->table;
        $results = $connection->select($grammar->compileColumnExists($table));
        return array_unique($connection->getPostProcessor()
            ->processColumnListing($results));
    }
}
- See more at: http://laravelsnippets.com/snippets/get-all-columns-names-from-a-eloquent-model-2#sthash.cimnbXdn.dpuf

### Bowling-Game Kata
https://github.com/pixelhandler/vagrant-dev-env/tree/bowling/www



Wednesday, 27 November 2013
======================================
I only have a couple of hours at the moment. Let's play with PDFs...

There's a package called FPDF (and FPDI) at:

    http://www.setasign.com/products/fpdi/downloads/#files

Wait... that uses FPDF. FPDF is from:

    http://www.fpdf.org/

It works beautifully. This writes correctly formatted data to our reservation form:

```php
    < ?php
    require_once(__DIR__.'\fpdf\fpdf.php');
    require_once(__DIR__.'\fpdf\fpdf_tpl.php');
    require_once(__DIR__.'\fpdf\fpdi.php');


    // initiate FPDI
    $pdf = new FPDI();

    // set the source file
    $pdf->setSourceFile("Registration.pdf");

    // import page 1
    $tplIdx = $pdf->importPage(1);
    $size = $pdf->getTemplatesize($tplIdx);

    // add a page
    $pdf->AddPage($size['w'] > $size['h'] ? 'L' : 'P', array($size['w'], $size['h']));

    // use the imported page 
    $pdf->useTemplate($tplIdx);

    // now write some text above the imported page
    $pdf->SetFont('Helvetica', '', 12);
    $pdf->SetTextColor(0, 0, 0);

    $pdf->SetXY(65, 68.75);
    $pdf->Write(0, 'Guest Name');
    $pdf->SetXY(65, 75);
    $pdf->write(0, 'Contact Number');
    $pdf->SetXY(65, 81.5);
    $pdf->write(0, 'Date of Arrival');
    $pdf->SetXY(65, 87.75);
    $pdf->write(0, 'Date of Departure');
    $pdf->SetXY(65, 94);
    $pdf->write(0, 'Accommodations');
    $pdf->SetXY(65, 100.25);
    $pdf->write(0, 'Event');
    $pdf->SetXY(65, 107);
    $pdf->write(0, 'Deposit Received');
    $pdf->SetXY(75, 113.1);
    $pdf->write(0, 'Balance Due');

    $pdf->Output();
```

I'd like to be able to load an external font; not quite sure how to make that happen. Also, it would be nice to have all of this as a Laravel service, or even as something that can be loaded via composer.


### Daily Practice -- OAuth

This morning, let's see if I can play with OAuth for logins....

First thing, which OAuth library to use? There are several. 

The recommended library is madewithlove/laravel-oauth2
It has some usage, no unit tests. 243 installs from packagist; 2 users have updated 5 things in the past month.

Also thomaswelton/laravel-oauth
794 installs from packagist; few updates; no unit tests. Says not to use for production on the front page. :-)  It's a laravel wrapper around lusitanian/oauth. It has several migrations to hold oauth logins. Lots of contributions to open source projects. Lacking docs, really... Lots of code...

Also artdarek/oauth-4-laravel
1238 installs from packagist; no unit tests; not many updates. Simple laravel wrapper around lusitanian/oauth. Maintainer doesn't have many contributions to open source projects (and less more recently). Excellent documentation. Very simple wrapper; not much code at all. a

Lusitanian/oauth is an active library with lots of contributors. 10 authors with 59 commits over the past month; unit tested. 5504 installs this month. It definitely looks to be something I want. 

Let's try the thomaswelton version. 

After installing, it creates some new routes for my project:

    DELETE /oauth/{provider}
    GET /oauth/{provider}/login 
    GET /oauth/{provider}/authorize 
    GET /oauth/{provider}

Immediately, my routes test fails. The login route isn't callable. The controller only has index, authorize, and destroy methods. In order to play with this, I'll have to fix it. No idea how to do that, right now. And I'm already over an hour into this...

Let's play with the artdarek version...

It doesn't really do anything itself, so is easy to install...

    php artisan config:publish artdarek/oauth-4-laravel

This gives me a file:

    app/config/packages/artdarek/oauth-4-laravel/config.php

It seems to me that I'm going to want to put that in .gitignore, so it doesn't end up in the public repository on github, and copy the data manually...

And now, I need to figure out how to get some credentials...


#### Google

    https://code.google.com/apis/console
    Google+ API
    Name: Daily Practice -- Day 5

    Consent Screen:
        Product Name: Daily Practice
        Homepage URL: http://daily.kumuwai.com

    Registered Apps:
        Name: Daily Practice -- Day 5
        Type: Web Application


How can we test this? Is there anything we can test locally? Does it have to be on the server before I can test it? 

Need more information... Are there any howtos?

Ahhh... Now I find this:

http://www.mrcasual.com/on/coding/laravel4-package-management-with-composer/

It's still not an end-to-end howto, though. How do I put a link on my page? 

    <a href="https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth?state=%2Fprofile&amp;redirect_uri=http://localhost:80/daily.dev/day005_login&amp;response_type=code&amp;client_id=329408182449.apps.googleusercontent.com&amp;approval_prompt=force&amp;scope=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.googleapis.com%2Fauth%2Fuserinfo.email+https%3A%2F%2Fwww.googleapis.com%2Fauth%2Fuserinfo.profile">Login via Google</a></p>

One problem, though: Google supports redirecting to localhost, and it supports redirecting to a known page, but it does not support redirecting to my own named instances, on my own machine. (eg, daily.dev/day005_login). Somehow, I need to get a request sent to localhost to redirect to a dev address...

We will get things that look like this:
http://daily.kumuwai.com/day005_login_google?state=/profile&code=4/TTAKJ7vFDM_0EMlTMB6LWM0g7nm2.gnI_IuCwOswfMqTmHjyTFGNiPN01hQI

Hmmmm.... It kind of works, but not really. I don't know how to test it, except on the server. I'm doing that, but getting an error:

[2013-11-27 18:57:43] log.ERROR: exception 'OAuth\Common\Http\Exception\TokenResponseException' with message 'Failed to request resource.' in daily.kumuwai.com/vendor/lusitanian/oauth/src/OAuth/Common/Http/Client/StreamClient.php:62

I just discovered that I can do things on my client! And, it's easy. In /etc/apache2/sites-available/000-default.conf:

    RedirectMatch ^/daily.dev/(.*) http://daily.dev/$1

This redirects it internally. Yay!

...but I'm still confused enough that I don't think I'm going to get this working today. I get a state and a code, but what can I do with it??????

Is there any way to set a callback url for my google service? If so, I can at least check some things... I tried putting it directly in OAuth/Common/Consumer/Credentials.php, but it didn't take it...

It looks like the credentials are passed in to OAuth/Common/Service/AbstractService, and are already set at that point.

There's a ServiceFactory, but credentials are already set by the time it gets there...

How are the credentials created? Can they be changed? Will that help me at all?

Tomorrow, maybe something simple?



Thursday, 28 November 2013
===============================

Hmmmmmm.... I'm not sure where they get created to start with, but I just found out that I get good data if I set credentials manually in the Credentials.php constructor.

Throw an exception in the constructor...

That's a great way to find out what calls something...

It's called in OAuth.php, function 'consumer'. It takes an optional url and scope.

I can set the scope in my configuration file, and read that at runtime. Just remember that Config::get is case-sensitive....

Strange... at this point, I'm getting a positive response whether I click "OK" or "Cancel". It's like Google is remembering I said "yes", at one point, and not letting me say "no" now.

I really don't like that. Any way around it? 

Yes, just restructure the code:

```php
    protected function loginWithGoogle()
    {
        if ($err = Input::get('error')) {
            $this->layout->content = View::make('days.005.fail')
                ->with('message', $err);
            return;
        }

        $code = Input::get( 'code' );
        $callback = Config::get('oauth-4-laravel::consumers.google.callback_url');
        $googleService = OAuth::consumer( 'google', $callback );

        if ( empty( $code ) ) {
            // Ask for a code from google
            $url = $googleService->getAuthorizationUri(['approval_prompt'=>'force']);
            return Response::make()->header( 'Location', (string)$url );
        }

        // if code is provided get user data and sign in

        // This was a callback request from google, get the token
        $token = $googleService->requestAccessToken( $code );

        // Send a request with it
        $result = json_decode( $googleService->request( 'https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v1/userinfo' ), true );

        $this->layout->content = View::make('days.005.yay')
            ->with('result', $result);
    }
```


Lots of possibilities today. It would be fun to play some more with that fpdf library -- maybe set up a psr-0 compliant version, installable via packagist.

That can be a deep rabbit-hole, though, and I already have plenty. :-)

Let's work on a view for a person. Once that's done, let's start working out details for a person (including links).

Or, go a bit deeper. I've been reading about hexagonal/onion architecture. Can I write something for a person based on that? What are my business rules? How can I codify those business rules?

Key tenets of hexagonal architecture:

    * The application is built around an independent object model.
    * Inner layers define interfaces; outer layers implement interfaces.
    * Direction of coupling is toward the center.
    * All application core code can be compiled and run separate from infrastructure.

I think I've been reaching toward this, but not really understanding it.

From http://blog.8thlight.com/uncle-bob/2012/08/13/the-clean-architecture.html:

> The concentric circles represent different areas of software. In general, the further in you go, the higher level the software becomes. The outer circles are mechanisms. The inner circles are policies.

> The overriding rule that makes this architecture work is The Dependency Rule. This rule says that source code dependencies can only point inwards. Nothing in an inner circle can know anything at all about something in an outer circle. In particular, the name of something declared in an outer circle must not be mentioned by the code in the an inner circle. That includes, functions, classes. variables, or any other named software entity.

An interface can be considered part of an inner circle. 

So, my RepositoryInterface objects can be used by inner circle, core objects.

Ahhhh... apparently, Object-Relational Mapping (eg, Eloquent models) and Domain Driven Design are somewhat contradictory. So, how do we use the good parts of each? There are some guidelines at http://www.udidahan.com/2008/06/25/object-relational-mapping-sucks/:

* No reporting  (eg, just use DB calls)
* Don't expose setters. ?????
* Grids are like reports

http://mortslikeus.blogspot.com/2009/01/active-record-and-ddd.html talks about a trap with Active Record. Basically, if you treat it as a data-store ONLY (no business logic at all), it works fine. When you start adding business logic to the Active Record types (eg, models), you start having problems:

> Most important, he violates the Single Responsibility Principle (SRP); the class is now responsible for multiple aspects:
> * Storing data
> * Executing business logic
> In the first few iterations, business logic that was previously packed in one method is now cluttered over multiple classes. DDD's supple design promises to mitigate that but a design usually only becomes supple by a lot of refactoring.

Does domain logic include relationships? That's something I really love about Eloquent...

Presentation: Improving Applications Design with a Rich Domain Model:
http://www.parleys.com/play/514892250364bc17fc56bb63/chapter0/about
http://www.parleys.com/search/rich%20domain%20model

7 Reasons Why DDD Projects Fail:
http://vimeo.com/13824218
(other interesting talks there, also...)

http://geekswithblogs.net/gyoung/archive/2006/05/03/77171.aspx says that the foundation of DDD is the repository pattern. Internally, use the abstract contracts (*RepositoryInterface)

Project Silk (DDD Demo Project):
http://silk.codeplex.com/


I just found out that Response is an interesting facade. It doesn't have a shouldRecceive method...

Hmmmm... Also, trying to mock an object, and it's completely not working. I'm passing in a $view to a view composer. This works, and returns the expected value:

    dd($view->with('days'));

This does not work:

    $view->with('days');

> BadMethodCallException: Method Mockery_1331235775_day006_view::with() does not exist on this mock object

Obviously, if the first one works, that's incorrect, though. 

Oh. Right. Another test is failing, because it didn't receive the complete $view mock.



Friday, 29 November 2013
===============================
Tests still drive me a bit batty. Plus, figuring out how to mock things. I really don't get it. :-(

I have a controller, TodosController, which takes a TodoInterface object (basically, an Eloquent model). I have mocked the object, and pass it in to the controller. I try doing something with it, and it throws an error that "Method Mockery_2000532275_Days_Day007_TodoInterface::paginate() does not exist on this mock object". But it does.

Oh... wrong method. My bad.

Everything works well. Except for one thing. I can't get validation tests to return an error in codeception. That nifty trick with Session::get('errors') is not working. :-(

If I var_dump Session::all() on the page, I see the only thing in the Session is the token. Not sure why that would happen...

Ahhh... Because, for some unknown reason, I set the session driver for 'testing' to 'array'. If I want codeception to work, that can't be done. It has to be 'native.'



Sunday, 1 December 2013
===============================
I'm very smart, but am terrible at asking questions, and asking for things I need. I'm really confused about DDD, and how it fits with ORM (and Laravel). I'm really enchanted by the concept, though. Write all of your domain code in such a way that it is insulated from changes to framework that you're using. Then, you can change things out whenever you need to. Replace Laravel 4 with Laravel 5, or CodeIgniter, or SharePoint, or whatever. The domain-level code really shouldn't have to change. It shouldn't know (or care) about the outside world, the application framework it's living in, etc.

But how to put that into practice? Even with a little to-do app, I'm confused. I don't even know how to ask what I don't know.

I'll take a stab at it, anyway...

Practical Domain Driven Development (DDD) with Laravel?

Aloha, folks,

Could someone please help me to understand how to split out domain services in the context of a Laravel application?

I've been reading a lot about Domain Driven Development (DDD), recently. The principles and rationale of DDD make a lot of sense to me. I love these concepts:

* Having domain logic idependent of any framework
* Building and testing domain logic in isolation of application code
* Stand-alone units of work
* No changes when the framework changes (eg, Laravel 4 to 5, CodeIgniter, Kohana, SharePoint, etc.)

All sounds fantastic and beautiful, in theory. In practice, I find myself stumbling on some really elementary stuff. How to isolate the domain logic, in any meaningful sense?

I have a very simple To-Do application, which I would like to add business rules to. (In this case, an arbitrary rule: don't show anything beginning with the letter A). 

I created a TodoRepositoryInterface, implemented with a TodoRepository

In my controller, I have:

[code]
class TodosController extends BaseController 
{
    protected $layout = 'template';
    protected $todo;

    public function __construct(TodoRepositoryInterface $todo)
    {
        $this->todo = $todo;
    }

    public function index()
    {
        $todos = $this->todo->paginate(5);

        $this->layout->content = View::make('index', compact('todos'));
    }
}
[/code]

I immediately stumbled onto having to return something that has a 'paginate' method. It seems to me that pagination is application-specific, something that my domain doesn't (or shouldn't) care about at all.

Alternately, I could return the eloquent collection to be paginated; in my repository, I can do something like this:

[code]
class TodoRepository implements TodoRepositoryInterface
{
    protected $todos;

    public function __construct(Todo $todos)
    {
        $this->todos = $todos;
    }

    public function items()
    {
        return $this->todos->notStartingWithLetter('A');
    }

    public function __get($what)
    {
        return $this->$what();
    }
}
[/code]

Then, I can call it from the controller with $todos = $this->todo->items->paginate(5); that works, but it seems that my repository is now coupled with Eloquent. 

It gets worse when I want to pull input and validation from a controller. My original controller looks like this:

Should there be another class, somewhere? I feel like I'm missing some fundamental concept.

---

It's been a few hours; no takers. :-(

There's an interesting article about hexagonal architecture (eg, Ports & Adapters pattern) at http://alistair.cockburn.us/Hexagonal+architecture
