Monday, 9 December 2013
=====================================
Pulling Laravel 4.1

    git clone https://github.com/laravel/laravel.git mini
    git checkout -b develop origin/develop
    rm -rf .git
    git init
    git add .
    git commit -m 'Initial install'
    composer install

I'm wondering how to set up codeception to handle Given/When/Then terminology. Particularly, with regards to items sent to a controller. How can I have an array of items in Codecept, sent to the controller? How can I funnel test items to my controller?

CodeGuy has a haveFakeClass method. TestGuy doesn't, though...

Hmmm.... going for a while with broken tests...

Grrrr... There's a very early step, here, that I don't really understand. Ultimately, it leaves me stuck. It's very basic, too... going from "there are no items" to "there is one item". I don't want to have to create a database for that. I just want the test to push in one item, and let the controller work with that.

Unable to install mockery via composer. It's just frozen on the "Loading composer repositories with package information" step.

It looks like packagist.org might be down. :-(



Wednesday, 11 December 2013
================================
I've been studying working with domain objects, and letting questions about databases and frameworks and such wait until later. Yes, I think Laravel is great, but don't want to couple my domain to anything.

So, can we namespace a bare application? I think so... How do we get Composer to work without a framwork or any vendor dependencies at all? Just namespaces?

Tried installing composer, putting this in composer.json:

    "autoload": {
        "psr-0": {
            "BowlingGame": "src/"
        }

In phpunit.xml, I have:

    bootstrap="vendor/autoload.php"

Which should, theoretically, let me autoload a class. But it's not working.

In my test, I have:

    use BowlingGame\Game;

    class BowlingGameTest extends PHPUnit_Framework_TestCase
    {
        public function testGameExists()
        {
            $game = new Game;
        }

In the class itself:

    < ?php namespace BowlingGame;

    class Game
    {}

Why is it giving me a class not found error?

My Game object was directly in src, not in src/BowlingGame. Once I changed that, it worked. Incidentally, ending slashes are not needed for Composer.
