Monday, 2 December 2013 
=======================================
Let's try DDD on a purchase request app...

Trying out Laravel 4.1, also.

The Router has changed. Instead of taking an App parameter, it's taking a Dispatcher and Container. Instead of this:

    $router = new Router($app);

Use this:

    $router = new Router($app['events'], $app);

Ideally, I'd like to generate files using the DDD stuff I came up with for the Todo app, yesterday...

Let's load files into the generator...

for i in `find app/Days/Day009/ -type f`; do echo '#>'$i >> template.txt; cat $i >> template.txt; done
for i in `find app/tests/Days/Day009/ -type f`; do echo '#>'$i >> template.txt; cat $i >> template.txt; done
for i in `find app/views/days/009/ -type f`; do echo '#>'$i >> template.txt; cat $i >> template.txt; done



Tuesday, 3 December 2013 
=======================================
Hmmm... it took me a little bit ot get the template working correctly, but I think we're good now.

Getting some errors on tests, though...

These files are breaking:

    FunctionalManagersControllerTest.php
    FunctionalPurchaseRequestsControllerTest.php
    ManagerTest.php
    ManagersControllerTest.php
    PurchaseRequestTest.php
    PurchaseRequestsControllerTest.php

> Call to undefined method Illuminate\\Support\\Facades\\Artisan::call()

Really???

My template doesn't include any migrations... Is that the issue? No. Created some migrations; still have the issue.

Laravel 4.1... Everything seems to be updated, though...

Ahhh... It looks like my config/test-foo/app.php providers array is not being merged with the standard providers array, it's replacing it. 

Still getting errors, but they're better errors... Actually, caused by me... I put 'Artisan::call(foo)' in routes.php, for testing...

Create a couple of seed files...
Comment out tests that are not applicable to these objects...

Now, getting:

> InvalidArgumentException: Route [Kalani\PurchaseRequest\ManagersController@show] not defined.

Hmmm.... If I open it in a browser:

> Class Kalani\PurchaseRequests\ManagersController does not exist

Ahhh... wrong name in route.php. It had an s on the end...

> Target [Kalani\PurchaseRequest\ManagersAdapterInterface] is not instantiable.

It does take an argument... 

I might need to be explicit with binding... Yes. That works.


Takeaways:

1. Find some way to inject data into existing files from the template generator. Manual stuff bites! Lots of room for error, there...
2. Remove non-generally-applicable code from templates before installing/distributing.
3. If the templates are good, you can rip through a lot of boilerplate stuff in seconds, and get immediately to the meat of the app.




Wednesday, 4 December 2013
=================================
Working a bit more on a generator, and templates, this morning. Ideally, I would like to be able to run "generate", then go to a working app (even just a todo) within a few seconds.

Current template test returns 17 errors and 3 failures.

Mostly because the seeder file does not exist...

Next, lots of target not instantiable errors...

I can set up a service provider for them...

3 errors, 3 failures

A few touch-ups...

Right out of the box, I now get green tests.



I've worked on the template some more; I think it's good. Let's undo changes, and try the new stuff...

    php artisan generate:template --template=bin/template.php --args="ns:Kalani\PurchaseRequests\PurchaseRequest;obj:purchase_request;route:purchase_requests;view:purchase_requests"

Two failures, both related to the database. (DbTest.php had no tests) Easy to fix. Yay!

    php artisan generate:template --template=bin/template.php --args="ns:Kalani\PurchaseRequests\Manager;obj:manager;route:managers;view:managers"

There is one issue, but it's minor. I say "Manager" and "All Manager" instead of "Managers" and "All Managers". I can update the template quick for that...

Also, strange things...

It looks like Str::snake only converts from camelCase or StudlyCase. Here's a function to show the word translations:

```php
    public function testFoo()
    {
        $values = array(
            'foo bar bazz',
            'foo_bar_bazz',
            'fooBarBazz',
            'FooBarBazz',
            'foo-bar-bazz',
            'person',
            'people',
        );

        $methods = array(
            'upper', 
            'lower', 
            'title', 
            'slug', 
            'snake', 
            'studly', 
            'camel', 
            'ascii',
            'plural',
            'singular',  
        );

        printf("%-10s", 'ORIGINAL:');
        foreach ($values as $value) {
            printf('%-15s', $value);
        }
        echo PHP_EOL.PHP_EOL;

        foreach($methods as $method) {
            printf("%-10s", $method);
            foreach ($values as $value) {
                printf('%-15s', Str::$method($value));
            }
            echo PHP_EOL;
        }

    }
```

It generates these:

ORIGINAL: foo bar bazz   foo_bar_bazz   fooBarBazz     FooBarBazz     foo-bar-bazz   person         people

upper     FOO BAR BAZZ   FOO_BAR_BAZZ   FOOBARBAZZ     FOOBARBAZZ     FOO-BAR-BAZZ   PERSON         PEOPLE
lower     foo bar bazz   foo_bar_bazz   foobarbazz     foobarbazz     foo-bar-bazz   person         people
title     Foo Bar Bazz   Foo_Bar_Bazz   Foobarbazz     Foobarbazz     Foo-Bar-Bazz   Person         People
slug      foo-bar-bazz   foo-bar-bazz   foobarbazz     foobarbazz     foo-bar-bazz   person         people
snake     foo bar bazz   foo_bar_bazz   foo_bar_bazz   foo_bar_bazz   foo-bar-bazz   person         people
studly    FooBarBazz     FooBarBazz     FooBarBazz     FooBarBazz     FooBarBazz     Person         People
camel     fooBarBazz     fooBarBazz     fooBarBazz     fooBarBazz     fooBarBazz     person         people
ascii     foo bar bazz   foo_bar_bazz   fooBarBazz     FooBarBazz     foo-bar-bazz   person         people
plural    foo bar bazzs  foo_bar_bazzs  fooBarBazzs    FooBarBazzs    foo-bar-bazzs  people         peoples
singular  foo bar bazz   foo_bar_bazz   fooBarBazz     FooBarBazz     foo-bar-bazz   person         person



Thursday, 5 December 2013 
=======================================
OK, let's get to work on the PR system. I modify the managers table from the template, and immediately get a lot of strange errors. 

Change 'item' to 'name'...

> 11) ManagerTest::testManagerSetupWorks
> ErrorException: Object of class DateTime could not be converted to string

1. What is causing the issue?
2. Is there a way to get better feedback from the test when an issue comes up?

1. The issue was caused by the seeder trying to load data into a field name that did not exist.

Easy enough to fix...
No idea on question 2.

Now, create and update are not redirecting appropriately...

The business rules are throwing an error that they're not receiving data. The adapters for store and update are throwing out everything but 'item'. That would do it...

Also, the views have 'item', but not 'name'. 



Friday, 6 December 2013
=================================
Watching a start-to-finish tutorial on building an app...

* Do not start with model. Delay for as long as possible.
  This makes system more accepting of change.
* Start with view, degenerate scenario
  * simplest; lets you get system structure working
  * basic structure, routes, etc.
  * hard-code some html
  * route, controller, method, view (hard-code expected values)
* Scenario 2 is for variations
  * For early tests, create a struct/array with data...
* Introduce dynamism -- programming by wishful thinking
  (if this worked, it would be wonderful)
  * Modify the view for how you would like the data to be called
  * Build a dummy object in the controller (an array of them...)
* Moving code from test -> view -> controller

Interesting... He calls a presenter from a controller. 

Other interesting things:

* When testing, use a Given, When, Then structure
    Given: the initial state            (setup)
    When:  what happens to change it?   (method call, etc.)
    Then:  what should the result be?   (assertion(s))

Complexity should be extracted from the test objects and into helper functions.


Saturday, 7 December 2013
=============================
There's a php version of the gilded rose kata at:
https://github.com/pepellou/PHP---Kata-Gilded-Rose


Sunday, 8 December 2013
=============================
It's now 11:15; let's see if I can finish a gilded-rose kata before lunch...

