Wednesday, 18 December 2014
===============================
Trying Laravel 4.1. Very strange... My initial response is just a blank screen. No errors, no nothing.

Tracing to Application::run...
Tracing through some more...

I can just catch an exception in index.php...

    try {
        $app->run();
    }
    catch (\Exception $e) {
        var_dump($e);
    }

It throws an exception, but doesn't do the nifty exception handling I'm used to.
The exception is just a permission denied to save a session. Why isn't it showing nice exception handling?


Thursday, 19 December 2014
==================================

Trying hard to learn how to get a complex system working...

* There should be a 1-1 relationship between use cases and objects representing them (Interactors)
* Interactors implement application-specific business rules
* Interactors can know about Entities (business objects)
* Client (eg, MVC layer) sends Request Model (data-transfer object) to Interactor
* Interactor returns a Result Model (data-transfer object) back to the client

http://alistair.cockburn.us/Use+case+fundamentals

* Classes are nouns; functions start with verbs

It seems, then, that we would have these categories of classes for pretty much everything:

    View (index, create, show, edit)    Laravel/Blade
    Controller                          Laravel (extends BaseController)
    Adapter                             Boundary (knows Laravel and domain objects)
    Interactor                          Domain (implements use-cases; application level)
    Entity                              Domain (enterprise rules)
    RepositoryInterface                 Domain
    Repository                          Boundary (knows Laravel objects)
    Model                               Laravel/Eloquent


I'm trying to imagine how to put objects together, based on everything I've been learning about clean code. It seems to use a lot of classes. We would have:

### MVC (Pure application space)
route
Controller

### Adapter / Service layer (Mixed application/domain)
Adapter / Principle Interactor (funnels things to appropriate use cases)
Validator
Authentication / Permissions Service

### Domain Layer
Person (for instance; all entities)

### Adapter / Service Layer
Person Repository  (Repository for each entity type)

### MVC (application space)
Person Model
Eloquent
Person / related tables

Am I making things too complicated? Is that what is needed in a big system? How does that interact with things like dashboards? I know that I want to be able to give anyone an address, and they'll get a page/object that conforms to their level of access. (eg, some people might get a person object, but not be able to edit it; others would be able to edit; others to delete).

I got completely lost on the Interface Segregation Principle...

...

Each use-case module should be responsible to one and only one actor.

In the example, he creates a use-case factory, and a request builder, both used by the controller. Confused....

Use case factory: make method (with use case name)
Request Builder:  build method (with request name and constructor arguments)


System design using SOLID principles

* First, figure out who the actors are (groups of people who might request changes)
* Single responsibility principle - one module per actor
* Goal of component structure is independent deployability
* Components should be large enough to justify cost of managing releases
* (they will be independently versioned, etc... think: package)
* When one class polymorphically uses another, the two classes should be in different components

I wonder, can I create a general NullObject? Something that could run any given method, and return a null for any requested property?


Saturday, 21 December 2014
===============================
I've learned a new, interesting way to work with thin controllers. It's in an OOD in PHP video, based on Matt Wynn's talk about Hexagonal Architecture with Ruby.

class ProjectCreator
{
    public function __construct($listener)
    {
        $this->listener = $listener;
    }

    public function createForUser($user, $attributes)
    {
        $project = new Project($attributes);

        if (! $project->save()) {
            return $this->listener->projectCreationFailed($project);
        }

        $user->projects->associate($user);
        Mail::queue(...);
        return $this->listener->projectCreationSucceeded($project);
    }
}

class ProjectController extends Controller
{
    public function store()
    {
        $projectCreator = new ProjectCreator($this);
        return $projectCreator->createForUser(Auth::user(), Input::get('project'));
    }

    public function projectCreationSucceeded($project)
    {
        Session::flash('message', 'Project created successfully');
        return Redirect::to('projects/{$project->id}');
    }

    public function projectCreationFailed($project)
    {
        Session::flash('message', 'Project creation failed');
        return View::make('projects.create', compact('project'));
    }

}


Sunday, 22 December 2014
===============================
Working on a domain-driven version of Make-It-Snappy.... Let's see if I can learn how to split out responsibilities correctly. I think I'll have these objects:

    Views (index, create, show)     Blade
    QuestionsController             Laravel; extends BaseController
    QuestionsAdapter                Boundary; know/use Laravel objects...
    QuestionsInteractor             Domain; App layer / use cases
    Question                        Domain; Entity
    QuestionRepository              Boundary; know/use Laravel objects
    Question (Model)                Laravel; extends Eloquent (ORM)

Obviously, for an app of this size, ordinarily this would be significant overkill. It would probably work well with Views, Controller, Repository, and Model layers. This is, essentially, a proof of concept, and a way to start working with and thinking about domain space.

Interesting... In my View, I currently have a call to Auth::check. In my test, it works fine, but in the browser, I get a 500 error: Call to undefined method Illuminate\Support\Facades\Auth::check().

Hmmmm.... my Providers array (app/config/local/app.php) was not being merged with the master providers array (app/config/app.php). 
