Monday, 29 April 2013
=================================

I'm preparing bootstrap editables for each form, one at a time. It seems to be working fine.

One issue that I'm running into now is handling the return from Laravel. When I return a 200 response (which should be OK), it still brings it up like an error. Not sure why...

It writes data to the server on line 216:

    $.when(this.save(newValue))
    .done($.proxy(function(response) {
        // this does not run, even when getting a 200 response
    .fail($.proxy(function(xhr) {
        // this runs...

Why is it picking up a success as a failure?

In query.js, line 8075, we have:

    if ( isSuccess )

which is returning false...
It seems to be doing that around line 8040...

    // if no content    
    if ( status === 204 ) {
        isSuccess = true;
        statusText = "nocontent";

    // if not modified
    } else if ( status === 304 ) {
        isSuccess = true;
        statusText = "notmodified";

    // If we have data, let's convert it
    } else {
        isSuccess = ajaxConvert( s, response );
        statusText = isSuccess.state;
        success = isSuccess.data;
        error = isSuccess.error;
        isSuccess = !error;
    }

At the very beginning, I get a parser error...

    ajaxConvert(s, response);

That function is on line 8186...
Oh! It's expecting a json response. Probably because I specifically told it that the dataType was json. Yup. Exactly. If I comment out the dataType (which I took to be the *send* datatype), I can even respond with '', as long as it's a 200 code, and we're good.


Validating Input
-----------------

I want to do different things when validating input for a full record (POST) request, versus individual items (PUT), versus searching for data (GET). For the latter two cases, I can reduce my validation array to JUST those items that were entered, by doing this:

    $keys = array_keys(Input::all());
    $validationArray =  array_only($this->data->rules, $keys);
    $validator = Validator::make(Input::all(), $validationArray);

Question, though: Where do we put business rules in this? If one of my business rules is that user 'x' cannot post a change on Wednesday, or before condition y has happened, or if situation z is happening, how can I do that?

I need to check a couple of different places for business rules...

Maybe another layer?

    View <-- Controller <--> Service Layer <--> Model (repository)

The service layer could interface with multiple models, as needed, to figure things out...
The controller is still just looking for data in one place...
The model just reads/writes data to storage. It's the persistence layer.
The view just displays data to the user

This is something called domain driven design.

So... The model is responsible for reading/writing to the database, searching for things, etc.
The service is responsible for validation, interaction with other models and components, etc.
The controller is responsible for passing data to/from the view
The view is responsible for showing data to the end user

Hmmmm.... currently, my service is using these:
  Page
  App::abort()
  Validator::make()



  

Wednesday, 1 May 2013
=================================
Interesting article at:
http://www.bennadel.com/blog/2379-A-Better-Understanding-Of-MVC-Model-View-Controller-Thanks-To-Steven-Neiland.htm

Controller - The "C" in "MVC"

The Controller's job is to translate incoming requests into outgoing responses. In order to do this, the controller must take request data and pass it into the Service layer. The service layer then returns data that the Controller injects into a View for rendering. This view might be HTML for a standard web request; or, it might be something like JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) for a RESTful API request.

Red Flags: My Controller architecture might be going bad if:

The Controller makes too many requests to the Service layer.
The Controller makes a number of requests to the Service layer that don't return data.
The Controller makes requests to the Service layer without passing in arguments.

View - The "V" in "MVC"

The View's job is to translate data into a visual rendering for response to the Client (ie. web browser or other consumer). The data will be supplied primarily by the Controller; however, the View may also have a helper that can retrieve data that is associated with the rendering and not necessarily with the current request (ex. aside data, footer data).

Red Flags: My View architecture might be going bad if:

The View contains business logic.
The View contains session logic.

Model - The "M" in "MVC"

The Model's job is to represent the problem domain, maintain state, and provide methods for accessing and mutating the state of the application. The Model layer is typically broken down into several different layers:

Service layer - this layer provides cohesive, high-level logic for related parts of an application. This layer is invoked directly by the Controller and View helpers.

Data Access layer - (ex. Data Gateway, Data Access Object) this layer provides access to the persistence layer. This layer is only ever invoked by Service objects. Objects in the data access layer do not know about each other.

Value Objects layer - this layer provides simple, data-oriented representations of "leaf" nodes in your model hierarchy.

Red Flags: My Model architecture might be going bad if:

The Model contains session logic.
The Value Objects retain (ie. store) references to Service objects or Gateway objects.



Thursday, 2 May 2013
=================================
I'm taking a look at the new Kalani web site. I think I can do it, basically as a one or two-day throw-away project. Hmmmmm....

Objects:

  Blog:
    title
    by   (author)
    image
    body
    path
    related categories
    related tags

  Class:
    cancellations and changes
    day/time
    facilitator
    type of resource
    default date/time
    class type
    location
    price
    notes
    description

  Event:
    Name
    Main image
    date/time
    location
    description
    admission
    type of resource
    featured in sidebar or slideshow
    slideshow or default size sidebar image
    sidebar image: tall
    slideshow order
    facilitator
    link

  Gallery
    title
    summary
    description
    gallery date
    gallery images
    gallery folder
    
  Glossary term (Hawaiian phrases used throughout Kalani site)
  
  Other Resource:
    Type
    facilitator
    description
    
  Page:
    Title
    featured in sidebar or slideshow
    slideshow or default size sidebar image
    sidebar image: tall
    slideshow order
    body
    audio/video
    
  Press:
    Display title
    published in
    article title
    author
    date
    image
    www
    pdf
    featured in sidebar or slideshow
    slideshow or default size sidebar image
    sidebar image: tall
    slideshow order
    body

  Quotation:
    Author
    quotation
    
  Room:
    main image
    more images
    description
    nightly rate
    group_nightly_rate
      private bath 
      shared bath
    
  Slide:
    overlay text
    slide image
    slide order
    
  Slideshow image:
    title
    body
    photo
    
  Webform:
    title
    body
    
  Workshop:
    workshop title
    short title
    workshop categories
    workshop dates
    main image
    workshop description
    Featured: sidebar or slideshow
      Featured in sidebar or slideshow
      slideshow or default size sidebar image
      sidebar image: tall
      slideshow order
    About the facilitators
    contacts
    for information
    workshop fees
    pricing comments (pre-table)
    fees per accomodations
    pricing comments (post-table)
    
  Workshop Contact:
    contact
    description
    phone
    email
    www
    
All objects also have these fields:

    URL path settings
    Meta tags
    XML sitemap
    URL redirects

Obviously, as a kata, I'm not going to do all of that stuff.
I could see doing static pages, workshops, and events... Maybe a blog.

I got a great start on it. Next steps are these:

    Add, edit, and delete users
    Create tables and interfaces to add, edit, delete each of:
        static pages
        workshops
        events
    Load images from hard drive to server; auto resize/thumbnail
    Open static pages via slug
    Show workshops on front page
    Show highlighted item(s) on front page

I'd love to have it all done today!

---
Going slowly, though...

If we successfully delete a record, Null is returned.
If we fail to delete, an error is thrown. It looks like this:

{"error":{"type":"Exception","message":"SQLSTATE[42000]: Syntax error or access violation: 1142 DELETE command denied to user 'kata_user'@'localhost' for table 'users' (SQL: delete from `users` where `id` = ?) (Bindings: array (\n 0 => '2',\n))","file":"\/home\/joel\/projects\/web\/kata\/05-02_kweb\/vendor\/laravel\/framework\/src\/Illuminate\/Database\/Connection.php","line":494}}

(with debugging turned on. With it off, it just says that something went wrong, and returns nothing that I can use in the status)

I've set up my error checkers to do this:

    App::error(function(Exception $exception, $code)
    {
      Log::error($exception);
        if (Request::ajax()) {
            $json = array('error'=>array('message'=>'something went wrong'));
            return Response::json($json, $code);
        }
        return View::make('errors/unknown');
    });

    App::missing(function(Exception $exception)
    {
        if (Request::ajax()){
            $json = array('error'=>array('message'=>'Resource not found'));
            return Response::json($json, 404);
        }

        return View::make('errors/missing');
    });

MySQL can throw a lot of errors... There's a list at:
http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.1/en/error-messages-server.html


FontAwesome
==============

I just found a great resource with a font containing scalable vector icons, that can be used with bootstrap. It's called FontAwesome:

    http://fortawesome.github.io/Font-Awesome

To use it in a project, copy the font directory to /public/assets, and the .css file into /public/assets/css. Link to the css file. Done.

    <link rel="stylesheet" href="path/to/bootstrap/css/bootstrap.min.css">
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="path/to/font-awesome/css/font-awesome.min.css">
    Use icons with <i class="icon-camera-retro"></i> 
    Resize with <class="icon-large" "icon-2x" "icon-3x" or "icon-4x">
    Spin with <class="icon-spin">
    "icon-border" puts a border around it
    "pull-right" pulls it to the right edge of the container
    "icon-muted" takes it to grayscale


More with Laravel Errors
============================

These are equivalent:

    return Response::view('errors/validation',  
        array('errors'=>$v->errors()->all()), 400);

and:

    $view = View::make('errors/validation')
        ->with('errors', $v->errors()->all());
    return Response::make($view, 400);

Hmmmm...
Let's backtrack.
I'm confusing myself with ajax and jquery.
On top of laravel, which I'm still struggling with.
Yes, it's cool.
... but at this point, it's more important to get something into production.
With a good, reliable system in place, I can add the jquery later.
For now, too many different pieces, too much different technology. Simplify as much as possible. Make it prettier later.

I was doing this in javascript:

    function show_error(err)
    {
        $json = JSON.parse(err);
        if($json){
            $('#messages').show().html($json['error']['message']);
            return;
        }
        $('#messages').show().html(err);
    }

    $(function(){
        // When a row is hovered over, show the buttons
        $table = $('table');
        $table.on('mouseenter', 'tr', function(){ 
            $(this).find('.delete').show();
            $(this).find('.password').show();         
        }).on('mouseleave', 'tr', function(){ 
            $(this).find('.delete').hide(); 
            $(this).find('.password').hide(); 
        });

        $table.on('click', '.delete', function() {
            $this = $(this);
            $.ajax($this.attr('href'), {
                type: 'delete',
                success: function() { 
                    $('#messages').show().html('The record has been deleted.');
                    $this.parents('tr').fadeOut(); 
                },
                error: function(err) {
                    show_error(err.responseText);
                }
            });
            return false;
        });

        $table.on('click', '.add', function(){
            $.ajax({
                type: 'post',
                data: $('form').serialize(),
                success: function(){
                    $('#messages').show().html('The record has been added.');
                },
                error: function(err) {
                    show_error(err.responseText);
                }
            });
            return false;
        });

        $('.delete').hide();
        $('.password').hide();
        $('.container').css('margin-top', '50px');
    });

I had this in my store function (to return ajax data):

    $v = $this->data->validate(Input::all());
    if($v->fails()) {
        return Response::view('errors/validation',  
            array('errors'=>$v->errors()->all()), 400);
    }

Even the more straightforward way, I run into an issue. How can I specify a route when opening a form? It wants a user ID, but I have no idea how to pass it...

    {{ Form::model($user, array('route'=>'users.update'))}}
    {{ Form::open(array('route'=>'users.update', 'method'=>'put')) }}
    
It looks like this works, but isn't pretty:

    {{ Form::open(array('url'=>URL::route('users.update', $user->id), 'method'=>'put')) }}

Still, working is good.

I think I have a best practice for models and controllers. This puts the data logic (including validation) directly in the model layer; the controller just runs it and returns views and redirections.

    class UsersController extends BaseController 
    {

        public function __construct(User $data)
        {
            $this->data = $data;
        }

        public function index()
        {
            return View::make('users/index')
                ->with('users', $this->data->all());
        }

        public function create()
        {
            return View::make('users/create');
        }

        public function store()
        {
            $input = Input::all();
            $v = $this->data->validate($input);
            if($v->fails())
                return Redirect::back()->withErrors($v)->withInput();

            $this->data->create($input);
            return Redirect::route('users.index');
        }

        public function show($id)
        {
            return $this->edit($id);
        }

        public function edit($id)
        {
            $found = $this->data->findOrFail($id);

            return View::make('users/edit')
                ->with('user', $found);
        }

        public function update($id)
        {
            $found = $this->data->findOrFail($id);
            $updates = Input::get();

            $v = $this->data->validate($updates, $id);
            if($v->fails()) {
                return Redirect::back()->withErrors($v)->withInput();
            }

            $found->update($updates);
            return Redirect::route('users.index');
        }

        public function destroy($id)
        {
            $found = $this->data->findOrFail($id);

            $found->delete();
            return Redirect::route('users.index');
        }

    }


    class User extends Eloquent implements UserInterface, RemindableInterface 
    {
        protected $rules = array(
            'username'  => 'required|alpha_num|max:40|unique:users',
            'nickname'  => 'required|max:60',
            'password'  => 'required|max:128',
            'email'   => 'required|max:60|email',
            'active'  => 'required|in:0,1',
        );

        protected $fillable = array('username', 'nickname', 'password', 'email', 'active');

        protected $table = 'users';

        protected $hidden = array('password');

        public static function boot()
        {
            parent::boot();

            //Automatically hash a new password before saving to the db
            static::saving(function($post){
                $data = $post->getAttributes();
                if(!$post->original || strlen($data['password'])>0) {
                    $post->setAttribute('password', Hash::make($data['password']));
                }
            });
        }

        public function validate($data, $id=0)
        {
            $rules = $this->rules;
            if( Request::isMethod('put') ){
                $rules['username'] .= ',username,'.$id;
                if(!$data['password'])
                    unset($rules['password']);
            }
            return Validator::make($data, $rules);
        }

        public function validateOnly($data)
        {
            $keys = array_keys($data);
            $ruleset = array_only($this->rules, $keys);
            return Validator::make($data, $ruleset);
        }
    }


For buttons, using the FontAwesome stuff:

    // Save the active form, with a green button
    {{ Form::button('Save', array('class'=>'btn btn-success', 'type'=>'submit')) }}
    
    // Link to another page/route
    <a href="{{URL::route('users.index')}}">{{ 
        Form::button('Close Without Saving', array('class'=>'btn'))}}</a>
    
    // Delete, by using another (invisible) form; include an icon on the button
    @if(isset($user))
        {{ Form::button('<i class="icon-trash icon-large">  Delete</i>',
            array('class'=>'btn btn-danger', 'type'=>'submit', 'form'=>'delUser')) }}
        @endif
        {{ Form::close() }}

    // This is the (hidden) delUser form, which performs the deletion (above)
    @if(isset($user))    
        {{ Form::open(array('url'=>URL::route('users.destroy', $user->id), 
            'method'=>'delete', 'id'=>'delUser', 'hidden'=>'hidden')) }}
        {{ Form::close() }}
    @endif

These are theoretically equivalent:

    $this->assertTrue($this->client->getResponse()->isOk());
    $this->assertResponseOk();

When looking for errors, I can do this:

    $crawler = $this->client->request('GET', '/login');
    $form = $crawler->filter('form#loginForm')->form();

    // set some values
    $form['username'] = 'non existing user';
    $form['password'] = 'no_such_password';

    // submit the form
    $this->client->submit($form);

    // We should be redirected to the login page
    $this->assertRedirectedTo('/login');
    $response = $this->client->getResponse();  
    var_dump($response);                  // contains the full object
    var_dump($response->getContent());    // contains the html content (before redirect)

    $this->assertSessionHas('errors');         // use if expecting errors (False if none)
    var_dump(Session::get('errors')->all());   // returns all errors found

    $crawler = $this->client->followRedirect();

When we go to a page that has an error, and gets redirected, this will happen:

    $this->assertRedirectedTo('/login');
    $response = $this->client->getResponse();   // original response
    var_dump($response->getContent());          // original content - text about redirection

    $crawler = $this->client->followRedirect();
    $response = $this->client->getResponse();   // redirected response
    var_dump($response->getContent());          // full (new) content

In the tester, the new content does NOT include the error message. It does in the browser, though... I suspect this is a bug in the tester, or that somehow it's getting missed.

These are equivalent:

    $this->assertSessionHas('errors');
    $this->assertSessionHasErrors();
    $this->assertGreaterThan(0, count(Session::get('errors')));

You can see the specific errors with:

    var_dump(Session::get('errors'));

This will be a MessageBag object if there are errors, or null if not.
To check to see if there are no errors, use:

    $this->assertEquals(0, count(Session::get('errors')));
    $this->assertNull(Session::get('errors'));

This can be used to find and click on a particular (un-named) link:

    $a = $crawler->filter('a')
        ->reduce(function ($node, $i) {
            if ($node->getAttribute('href') != '/logout') {
                return false;
            }
        })->first()->link();

    $this->client->click($a);

This also works:

    $link = $crawler->selectLink('Logout')->link();
    $crawler = $this->client->click($link);

... even though the actual link text is "Logout Administrator"

It seems to need any full word in the link text.
... maybe ...

    'Logout'                works
    'Logout Administrator'  works
    'Administrator'         works
    'Admin'                 works (why?)
    'Admini'                does not work
    'Logout Admin'          does not work

I'm not really sure what the rules are. But it seems a full word in the value, or the full value, will work. To check, I'm looking at the response of         

    var_dump( $crawler->selectLink('Admin'));   // works
    ....object(Symfony\Component\DomCrawler\Crawler)#1074 (2) {
      ["uri":protected]=>
      string(17) "http://localhost/"
      ["storage":"SplObjectStorage":private]=>
      array(1) {
        ["000000000daca24e000000006a3a7618"]=>
        array(2) {
          ["obj"]=>
          object(DOMElement)#1068 (0) {
          }
          ["inf"]=>
          NULL
        }
      }
    }

    var_dump( $crawler->selectLink('Admini'));    // does not work
    ....object(Symfony\Component\DomCrawler\Crawler)#1074 (2) {
      ["uri":protected]=>
      string(17) "http://localhost/"
      ["storage":"SplObjectStorage":private]=>
      array(0) {
      }
    }

Hmmmm... I'm having a problem with checkboxes. It looks like they don't get posted if they're not set. So, if the value is set to 0 (off), it looks like it wasn't even submitted.

Let's move on to another model: Static Pages

  Page:
    title
    slug
    body
    state   (hidden, visible, featured in sidebar, featured in slideshow)
    created_by
    updated_by
    
    
Date Formats
-------------

I can specify date formats via php:

    $a = new DateTime($page->updated_at);
    echo $a->format('n/j/y g:ia');   m/d/yy h:mm am/pm


Importing from Drupal
------------------------

In Drupal, the page body is stored in field_data_body
aliases are in url_alias
titles are in node

    mysql> describe field_data_body;
    +--------------+------------------+------+-----+---------+-------+
    | Field        | Type             | Null | Key | Default | Extra |
    +--------------+------------------+------+-----+---------+-------+
    | entity_type  | varchar(128)     | NO   | PRI |         |       |
    | bundle       | varchar(128)     | NO   | MUL |         |       |
    | deleted      | tinyint(4)       | NO   | PRI | 0       |       |
    | entity_id    | int(10) unsigned | NO   | PRI | NULL    |       |
    | revision_id  | int(10) unsigned | YES  | MUL | NULL    |       |
    | language     | varchar(32)      | NO   | PRI |         |       |
    | delta        | int(10) unsigned | NO   | PRI | NULL    |       |
    | body_value   | longtext         | YES  |     | NULL    |       |
    | body_summary | longtext         | YES  |     | NULL    |       |
    | body_format  | varchar(255)     | YES  | MUL | NULL    |       |
    +--------------+------------------+------+-----+---------+-------+

    mysql> describe url_alias;
    +----------+------------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+
    | Field    | Type             | Null | Key | Default | Extra          |
    +----------+------------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+
    | pid      | int(10) unsigned | NO   | PRI | NULL    | auto_increment |
    | source   | varchar(255)     | NO   | MUL |         |                |
    | alias    | varchar(255)     | NO   | MUL |         |                |
    | language | varchar(12)      | NO   |     |         |                |
    | node     | int(10)          | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
    +----------+------------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+

    mysql> describe node;
    +-----------+------------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+
    | Field     | Type             | Null | Key | Default | Extra          |
    +-----------+------------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+
    | nid       | int(10) unsigned | NO   | PRI | NULL    | auto_increment |
    | vid       | int(10) unsigned | YES  | UNI | NULL    |                |
    | type      | varchar(32)      | NO   | MUL |         |                |
    | language  | varchar(12)      | NO   |     |         |                |
    | title     | varchar(255)     | NO   | MUL |         |                |
    | uid       | int(11)          | NO   | MUL | 0       |                |
    | status    | int(11)          | NO   | MUL | 1       |                |
    | created   | int(11)          | NO   | MUL | 0       |                |
    | changed   | int(11)          | NO   | MUL | 0       |                |
    | comment   | int(11)          | NO   |     | 0       |                |
    | promote   | int(11)          | NO   | MUL | 0       |                |
    | sticky    | int(11)          | NO   |     | 0       |                |
    | tnid      | int(10) unsigned | NO   | MUL | 0       |                |
    | translate | int(11)          | NO   | MUL | 0       |                |
    | uuid      | char(36)         | NO   | MUL |         |                |
    +-----------+------------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+

    mysql> describe menu_links;
    +--------------+------------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+
    | Field        | Type             | Null | Key | Default | Extra          |
    +--------------+------------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+
    | menu_name    | varchar(32)      | NO   | MUL |         |                |
    | mlid         | int(10) unsigned | NO   | PRI | NULL    | auto_increment |
    | plid         | int(10) unsigned | NO   |     | 0       |                |
    | link_path    | varchar(255)     | NO   | MUL |         |                |
    | router_path  | varchar(255)     | NO   | MUL |         |                |
    | link_title   | varchar(255)     | NO   |     |         |                |
    | options      | blob             | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
    | module       | varchar(255)     | NO   |     | system  |                |
    | hidden       | smallint(6)      | NO   |     | 0       |                |
    | external     | smallint(6)      | NO   |     | 0       |                |
    | has_children | smallint(6)      | NO   |     | 0       |                |
    | expanded     | smallint(6)      | NO   |     | 0       |                |
    | weight       | int(11)          | NO   |     | 0       |                |
    | depth        | smallint(6)      | NO   |     | 0       |                |
    | customized   | smallint(6)      | NO   |     | 0       |                |
    | p1           | int(10) unsigned | NO   |     | 0       |                |
    | p2           | int(10) unsigned | NO   |     | 0       |                |
    | p3           | int(10) unsigned | NO   |     | 0       |                |
    | p4           | int(10) unsigned | NO   |     | 0       |                |
    | p5           | int(10) unsigned | NO   |     | 0       |                |
    | p6           | int(10) unsigned | NO   |     | 0       |                |
    | p7           | int(10) unsigned | NO   |     | 0       |                |
    | p8           | int(10) unsigned | NO   |     | 0       |                |
    | p9           | int(10) unsigned | NO   |     | 0       |                |
    | updated      | smallint(6)      | NO   |     | 0       |                |
    +--------------+------------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+


This will show the data:

    mysql> select u.node, left(u.alias,20), left(title,40), left(body_value,20) from node n inner join url_alias u on u.node=n.nid inner join field_data_body b on n.nid = b.entity_id;

This will show duplicate nodes:

    mysql> select node, count(*) from (select u.node, left(u.alias,20), left(title,40), left(body_value,20) from node n inner join url_alias u on u.node=n.nid inner join field_data_body b on n.nid = b.entity_id) x group by node having count(*)>1;

This will show duplicate nodes in u_alias:

    mysql> select pid, url_alias.node, left(alias,80) from url_alias inner join (select node, count(*) from url_alias group by node having count(*)>1) x on x.node=url_alias.node order by url_alias.node;

This will load data from the current drupal7 site:

    source field_data_body.sql;
    source url_alias.sql;
    source node.sql;
    alter table url_alias add column node int(10);
    update url_alias set node=mid(source,6) where source like 'node/%';
    delete from url_alias where pid in 
    (6912,6016,6017,6021,6344,6642,6721,6735,6888,6795,6834,6853,6895,6896,6897,6898,6899,6916);
    delete from pages;

    INSERT INTO pages (section, state, created_by, updated_by, id, slug, title, body)
    SELECT 'plan', 'visible', 2, 2, u.node, left(u.alias,140), left(title,140), body_value
    from node n 
    inner join url_alias u on u.node=n.nid 
    inner join field_data_body b on n.nid=b.entity_id;

    update pages set body = replace(body, 'http://beta-kalani.com/', '/') where instr(body, 'http://beta-kalani.com/') > 0;



node 1264 is for arts... it should be in the community section.

    mysql> select mlid, menu_name, link_path, link_title, p1,p2,p3,p4,p5 from menu_links where mlid in(24528,14787,344,24528);
    +-------+-----------+-----------+-------------------------+-------+-----+-------+----+----+
    | mlid  | menu_name | link_path | link_title              | p1    | p2  | p3    | p4 | p5 |
    +-------+-----------+-----------+-------------------------+-------+-----+-------+----+----+
    |   344 | main-menu | node/6    | About Our Eco-Community | 14787 | 344 |     0 |  0 |  0 |
    | 14787 | main-menu | node/1189 | Community               | 14787 |   0 |     0 |  0 |  0 |
    | 24528 | main-menu | node/1264 | Arts                    | 14787 | 344 | 24528 |  0 |  0 |
    +-------+-----------+-----------+-------------------------+-------+-----+-------+----+----+

hmmmm.... 

    | 14788 | main-menu  | node/1190 | Plan Your Visit         | 14788 |  0 |  0 |  0 |  0 |
    | 14786 | main-menu  | node/1220 | Charitable Programming  | 14786 |  0 |  0 |  0 |  0 |
    | 14787 | main-menu  | node/1189 | Community               | 14787 |  0 |  0 |  0 |  0 |

I find it really funny that I haven't come up with the concept of p1,p2,p3,p4,p..n, yet. It's so simple, and makes a lot of sense, and is VASTLY simpler than navigating a heirarchical list for limited domains (like menu structures). 

    alter table menu_links add column node int(10);
    alter table menu_links add column section varchar(10);
    update menu_links set node=mid(link_path,6) where link_path like 'node/%';
    update menu_links set section ='plan' where p1=14788;
    update menu_links set section ='charitable' where p1=14786;
    update menu_links set section ='community' where p1=14787;
    delete from menu_links where mlid in (2271,19073,2265,24527,2266);

    INSERT INTO pages (state, created_by, updated_by, id, slug, title, body, section)
    SELECT 'visible', 2, 2, u.node, left(u.alias,140), left(title,140), body_value, section
    from node n 
    inner join url_alias u on u.node=n.nid 
    inner join field_data_body b on n.nid=b.entity_id
    left join menu_links m on n.nid = m.node;


Downloading Files in Laravel
-------------------------------

I want to find some way to prevent non-authenticated users from accessing files on the system. Only authenticated users (and, in some cases, users with specific permissions) should be able to access certain files. How can I make that happen?

From http://stackoverflow.com/questions/15942497/why-dont-large-files-download-easily-in-laravel

    public static function big_download($path, $name = null, array $headers = array())
    {
        if (is_null($name)) $name = basename($path);

        // Prepare the headers
        $headers = array_merge(array(
            'Content-Description'       => 'File Transfer',
            'Content-Type'              => File::mime(File::extension($path)),
            'Content-Transfer-Encoding' => 'binary',
            'Expires'                   => 0,
            'Cache-Control'             => 'must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0',
            'Pragma'                    => 'public',
            'Content-Length'            => File::size($path),
        ), $headers);

        $response = new Response('', 200, $headers);
        $response->header('Content-Disposition', $response->disposition($name));

        // If there's a session we should save it now
        if (Config::get('session.driver') !== '')
        {
            Session::save();
        }

        // Below is from http://uk1.php.net/manual/en/function.fpassthru.php comments
        session_write_close();
        ob_end_clean();
        $response->send_headers();
        if ($file = fopen($path, 'rb')) {
            while(!feof($file) and (connection_status()==0)) {
                print(fread($file, 1024*8));
                flush();
            }
            fclose($file);
        }

        // Finish off, like Laravel would
        Event::fire('laravel.done', array($response));
        $response->foundation->finish();

        exit;
    }

This might be an (easier) option:

.htaccess file:

    RewriteRule ^img/myfiles/(\w+)\.([a-z]{3,4})$ image.php?name=$1&type=$2 [L]

image.php file:

    if(Auth::user()->role == 'admin') {
        header("Content-type: image/" + $_SESSION['type']);
        readfile("/path/to/image/" + $_SESSION['name'] + '.' + $_SESSION['type']);
    else {
        header("Location: http://mysite.com/login");
    }
