Monday, 22 April 2013 
===============================

Let's work on the shopping app as a kata...

These are equivalent:

    return Item::find($id)->vendors;
    return $this->data->find($id)->vendors()->get();        // data is an instance of Item
    return $this->data->find($id)->vendors;                 // data is an instance of Item



Tuesday, 23 April 2013 
===============================

Continuing the app...



Wednesday, 24 April 2013 
===============================

I'm not sure how to call an external web site from a laravel controller, so that I can use the results of that. 

Basically, I want to open 'http://api.shop/items', which will give me a json list of items. Then, I want to do something with that list in my controller (specifically, pass it to my view). I'd like to do as much processing as possible in laravel, not javascript.

One idea is to use cUrl...
There are also some additional libraries:

    Guzzle       "guzzle/guzzle": "~3.1"
    Requests     "rmccue/requests": ">=1.0"

Guzzle seems to be more complete, but it also has extra dependencies. I might be able to make do with Requests, which is very simple and clean:

    $request = Requests::get('http://api.shop/users');
    $users = json_decode($request->body);

    return View::make('admin/index')
        ->with('users', $users);

I want to use these icons in the pages:

  icon-chevron-down:  Indicate a sub-view that can be opened; click to open
  icon-minus:         click to close sub-view
  icon-ok:            (checkmark); create new record
  icon-edit:          clear the "new" form
  icon-remove:        delete the selected item




Thursday, 25 April 2013 
===============================

The pages look good. Let's see if we can add, edit, and delete records via ajax.

Each item has a delete icon next to it...



Friday, 26 April 2013
=======================

Working on some jquery / javascript katas...



Saturday, 27 April 2013
===========================

Trying to figure out how to access an xeditable class...

<a href="" class="ed editable editable-click editable-open" data-name="name" data-pk="1" style="display: none;">Windex</a>

<span class="editable-inline editable-container" style=""><div><div class="editableform-loading" style="display: none;"></div><form class="form-inline editableform" style=""><div class="control-group"><div><div class="editable-input" style="position: relative;"><input type="text" style="padding-right: 24px;" class="input-medium"><span class="editable-clear-x" style="bottom: 8.5px; right: 8.5px;"></span></div><div class="editable-buttons"><button type="submit" class="btn btn-primary editable-submit"><i class="icon-ok icon-white"></i></button><button type="button" class="btn editable-cancel"><i class="icon-remove"></i></button></div></div><div class="editable-error-block help-block" style="display: none;"></div></div></form></div></span>

Certainly, there has to be something in there that I can attach to!

I can connect to focus .editableform, but it seems to get a lot of instances...

This gives me some good stuff:

    $('table').on('click', '.editable-submit', function() {
        $form = $(this);
        console.log($form);
        return false;
    });

Now, how do we inject the data we want into the data stream before sending? Or how do we override the send function to send the way we want?

In bootstrap-editable.js, line 298, it might be sending ajax to the server. How can we set values at that point?

The object itself is an EditableForm object. It has values like 'options', 'params', 'pk', and 'value'. How can I get it? I'm not sure how to address it.... $('EditableForm') gives me nothing...

