Saturday, 3 August 2013
=====================================

Today, as an exercise, I want to try to write a simple issue tracking application in laravel 4. 

Fairly simple. I count just a few tables:

* Users (id, username, password, email)
* Tickets (id, summary, description, creator, assignee, priority, due, category, created, updated)
* Responses (id, ticket, responder, description, created, updated)
* Categories (id, name)
* Recipients (id, table_id, user_id)

I want to play with the Cartalyst Sentry package, too...

After creating a basic database, I entered:

    php artisan migrate --package=cartalyst/sentry

It creates several tables:

    * groups
    * throttle
    * users
    * users_groups

Note that if I use migrate:rollback, it will wipe out these tables. Likewise, if I use migrate:refresh, these tables get wiped out (and not re-created later).

I also want to include my validation-rule-generator and (dev) facade-root packages... plus the way generators. They just make things easier for me.

On the client side, I want to use ckeditor. Not sure how to automatically download and configure it. So, download it manually and write it to a folder... there's gotta be a better way...

... maybe just use markdown?

Also, I want to load some components via component-installer.

    "robloach/component-installer": "dev-master"

It's having some problems, though. The post install script is giving me this:

> Script ComponentInstaller\Installer::postAutoloadDump handling the post-autoload-dump event terminated with an exception
                                                                                                                
> [ErrorException]                                                                                              
> Argument 2 passed to ComponentInstaller\Process\RequireJsProcess::aggregateScripts() must be an array, string given, called in /home/joel/projects/web/kata/08-03_tickets/vendor/robloach/component-installer/src/ComponentInstaller/Process/RequireJsProcess.php on line 109 and defined                                             

It does the same thing on `composer dump-autoload`.

It doesn't like this line:

    $result = $this->aggregateScripts($package, $scripts, $name.DIRECTORY_SEPARATOR.$name.'-built.js');

($scripts should be an array). If I pass in an empty array, it gives me a different error:

> [ErrorException]                         
> Invalid argument supplied for foreach()  

    array(3) {
      ["shim"]=>
      array(1) {
        ["p"]=>string(1) "p"
      }
      ["config"]=>
      array(1) {
        ["p"]=>string(1) "p"
      }
      ["baseUrl"]=>
      string(10) "components"
    }

Hmmmm... $scripts was getting a value of 'p', also. Where do these get set?

    $extra = isset($package['extra']) ? $package['extra'] : array();
    $options = isset($extra['component']) ? $extra['component'] : array();

    $scripts = isset($options['scripts']) ? $options['scripts'] : array();
    $shim = isset($options['shim']) ? $options['shim'] : array();
    $packageConfig = isset($options['config']) ? $options['config'] : array();

It crashes on the very first package. Cartalyst Sentry.

If I dump the package, I see something interesting:

    ["extra"]=>
    array(4) {
        ["component"]=>
        string(7) "package"

Many other packages have an ["extra"] section, but only Sentry includes ["component"]...

In the beginning of `requireJsProcess.php / requireJson`, I'm entering this to see what's going on:

    foreach($packages as $package) {
        var_dump($package['name']);
        if(isset($package['extra'])) 
            var_dump($package['extra']);
    }
    die;

Component packages look like this:

    string(20) "components/bootstrap"
    array(1) {
      ["component"]=>
      array(3) {
        ["scripts"]=>
        array(1) {
          [0]=>
          string(15) "js/bootstrap.js"
        }
        ["files"]=>
        array(3) {
          [0]=>
          string(19) "js/bootstrap.min.js"
          [1]=>
          string(9) "css/*.css"
          [2]=>
          string(9) "img/*.png"
        }
        ["shim"]=>
        array(1) {
          ["deps"]=>
          array(1) {
            [0]=>
            string(6) "jquery"
          }
        }
      }
    }

Doh! I wanted to pull down the dev version of that package, but I appear to have broken my setup completely...

I want to pull a forked version of the component installer package...

So, after I re-load all of the composer files from scratch, run this:

    composer update robloach/component-installer --prefer-source

That didn't work...
Delete the directory, and git clone a new version in its place.

That does work. I put the same fix in two places. It would be better to find the root of the problem, and fix it there...



Sunday, 4 August 2013
=====================================

It looks like Sentry has migrations, and it has models, but it doesn't have controllers or views. Let's create those...

... but someone has probably already created them. How can we find it?

    https://github.com/brunogaspar/laravel4-starter-kit

Hmmmm...

