Monday, 2 September 2013
==============================



Tuesday, 3 September 2013
===============================

Let's try to start again, based on the starter site at:

https://github.com/andrew13/Laravel-4-Bootstrap-Starter-Site

I'm running WAMP, and the page is loading very, very slowly... Changing `app/config/packages/jasonlewis/basset/config.php` to use local sources.

I'm using component installer (robloach/component-installer) to get several components. They're in my /components directory. I'll probably move that, at some point.

    $collection->add('../../../components/jquery/jquery.js');
    $collection->add('bootstrap/bootstrap.js');
    $collection->add('wysihtml5/wysihtml5-0.3.0.js');
    $collection->add('wysihtml5/bootstrap-wysihtml5.js');
    $collection->javascript('../../../components/datatables/js/jquery.dataTables.js');

... and now, it seems to run pretty quickly. (I commented out the CDN repositories--they apparently make basset work very slowly on a WAMP system).

I had an error that Auth::check was not found. Copied all providers to `app/config/local/app.php`

Everything now seems to be working. Writing it to a new project...

Wow... out of the box, it has unit tests! Running the tests is a bit slow, though. 43 tests in about 5 seconds. And it looks like it is using the sqlite memory-based test suite...

I'd also like to pull in codeception, to do acceptance tests.

I loaded codeception, but it's returning an index of my docs diectory, instead of the page. I would assume it can handle virtual directories...

    $I->wantTo('see a login when I go to the site');
    $I->amOnPage('/');
    $I->see('Home');

It throws an error that the index does not contain 'Home':

> --> Index of / Index of / NameLast modifiedSizeDescriptionBooks/ 12-Aug-2013 13:11 -  CodeIgniter user_guide/08-Oct-2012 04:27 -  Font Awesome Icons.htm 16-May-2013 10:07 64K Font Awesome Icons_f..>16-May-2013 10:07 -  Scalable and Modular..>04-Oct-2012 10:45 959K Selenium2TestCaseTes..>13-Feb-2013

Hmmm... Why is it going to an index page for localhost?

    $I->amOnPage('http://kdb.dev/');

> 403 Forbidden Forbidden You don't have permission to access /http://kdb.dev/ on this server.

    $I->amOnPage('kdb.dev');

--> 404 Not Found Not Found The requested URL /kdb.dev was not found on this server.

Why is the php browser going to localhost, rather than the specified site?

Hmmm..... Stranger, yet...

    (root set to http://test/)
    $I->amOnPage('hex.php');
    $I->see('hex');             // works
    $I->see('dec');             // does not work, even though dec is on the page

Actually, the error message says:

> 404 Not Found Not Found The requested URL /hex.php was not found on this server.

... which would be the reason that 'hex' works...



Wednesday, 4 September 2013
===============================

Trying to get codeception to run, and we don't have the internet this morning. Ouch! Let's trace the code.

    Codecept.php  
        runSuite

    SuiteManger.php 
        __constructor
        createSuite
        loadTests
        run             $runner->doEnhancedRun($this->suite, $result, $options);

    Runner.php
        doEnhancedRun   $suite->run   <<< What is actually getting called, here?

    PHPUnit/Framework/TestCase.php
        run             $result->run($this)

    PHPUnit/Framework/TestResult.php
        run             $test->runBare();

    PHPUnit/Framework/TestCase.php
        runBare
        runTest         $testResult = $method->invokeArgs($this, array_merge($this->data, $this->dependencyInput));
            $method:    Codeception\\TestCase\\Cept::testCodecept
            $this:      Codeception\TestCase\Cept#283  (FirstCept.php)
            array:      name=>FirstCept.php, file=>c:\...\FirstCept.php, bootstrap=>c:\...\acceptance\_bootstrap.php

    Codeception\TestCase\Cept.php
        testCodecept    $this->fire('test.before', new TestEvent($this));
        fire            $this->dispatcher->dispatch($event, $eventType);
            dispatcher: Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\EventDispatcher#207
            $event:     test.before
            $eventType: Codeception\Event\Test#261

    Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\EventDispatcher.php
        dispatch        $this->doDispatch($this->getListeners($eventName), $eventName, $event);
            $eventName: 'test.before'
            $event:     Codeception\Event\Test#255
            listeners:  Codeception\Subscriber\Module#205
                        Codeception\Subscriber\Cest#206
                        Codeception\Subscriber\Console#209
                        Monolog\Handler\RotatingFileHandler#263
    Module:             beforeSuite is called at beginning; before is called before the function is run...
    Codeception\Subscriber\Cest               
        beforeTest      $e->getTest()
            $e          Codeception\Event\Test#264  (an event dispatcher)

I'm getting lost in the weeds. I know that, at some point, it attempts to go to a web page...

Oh... I can get a stack trace with 

    vendor/bin/codecept.bat run --debug

    #4 C:\wamp\www\active\kdb\vendor\codeception\codeception\src\Codeception\Util\Mink.php(600)
        assertPageContains($needle, $haystack, $message='')
            $needle:   'foo'
            $haystack: "404 Not Found Not Found The requested URL /test.php was not found on this server."

So, by the time we go there, we've already looked for, and did not find, the page. 

    #6 C:\wamp\www\active\kdb\vendor\codeception\codeception\src\Codeception\Util\Mink.php(126)
        see($text, $selector = null)
            $text:      foo
            $selector:  NULL

        proceedSee($text, $selector = null)
            $response = $this->session->getPage()->getText();

        class Behat\Mink\Session#299 (4) {
            private $driver => class Behat\Mink\Driver\GoutteDriver#307 
            private $page =>   class Behat\Mink\Element\DocumentElement#224 (1) {

UserAgent is this (from BrowserKitDriver.php::visit):

    string(34) "Guzzle/3.7.2 curl/7.24.0 PHP/5.4.3"

If I create another test, just for guzzle, it works:

```php
    class FooTest extends PHPUnit_Framework_TestCase
    {
        public function testWorks()
        {
            $client = new Guzzle\Http\Client('http://test');
            $request = $client->get('/test.php'); 
            $response = $request->send();

            var_dump($response->getBody(true));
        }
        
    }
```
In Goutte\Client.php, `$request->getServer()` is returning HTTP_HOST => 'test:'



Thursday, 5 September 2013
===============================

The issue was in src/Codeception/Util/Connector/Goutte.php

It had this code:

    $server['HTTP_HOST'] = parse_url($uri, PHP_URL_HOST).':'.parse_url($uri, PHP_URL_PORT);

... which means that my test suite configuration file needs to be changed from this:

    config:
        PhpBrowser:
            url: 'http://test/'

... to this:

    config:
        PhpBrowser:
            url: 'http://test:80'

... and then, it works. 

I've submitted a pull request so that other people won't have this issue. Basically, I'm just changing the code to this:

    $port = parse_url($uri, PHP_URL_PORT) ?: 80;
    $server['HTTP_HOST'] = parse_url($uri, PHP_URL_HOST).':'.$port;

Now, codeception is running; things are looking good. I'm trying to read information from a page, though, and not getting anything...

```php
    // This test works
    public function testRouteExists(WebGuy $I)
    {
        $I->am('a logged in user');
        $I->wantTo('see the people route exists');
        $I->amOnPage('/people');
        $I->seeResponseCodeIs(200);
    }

    // This test works, up to the last line...
    public function testPersonRecordExists(WebGuy $I)
    {
        $I->am('a logged in user');
        $I->wantTo('see the record for person #1');
        $I->amOnPage('/people/1');
        $I->seeResponseCodeIs(200);
        $I->see('FirstName LastName');
    }
```

How do I load data into the database with codeception?

In `acceptance.suite.yml`, I added the Laravel4 module. I then added this to PeopleCest.php:

```php
    public function _before()
    {
        Artisan::call('migrate');
        App::make('DatabaseSeeder')->run();
    }
```




Friday, 6 September 2013
===============================

I think I'm finally getting the hang of git, and testing. Create a branch for a feature in git; work on that feature. ONLY on that feature. When you get to a point where you want to save it, test both the unit tests and the acceptance tests; if they're both green, commit. (some acceptance tests may take longer to implement; that's ok, but note it...)

