Wednesday, 9 October 2013
================================

I'm having some trouble running my unit tests. PHP is running out of memory. Not sure why... I currently have 359 tests (and am expecting to create many hundred more). PHPUnit reports:

> Time: 50.72 seconds, Memory: 682.00Mb

I did some research online; one of the recommendations was to turn off xdebug. After I did that, the tests went quite a bit faster, but it didn't save much memory:

> Time: 35.53 seconds, Memory: 651.50Mb

I see a comment that:

> The big killer is mockery for memory. It uses a shit load of reflection and other little magical things to find out information about your classes when mocking them. It's powerful, but yep, it's a memory hog!

Taking memory back down to 256MB, I get:

> PHP Fatal error:  Allowed memory size of 268435456 bytes exhausted (tried to allocate 12288 bytes) in /home/joel/projects/web/kdbl/2013-10-07/vendor/mockery/mockery/library/Mockery/Generator.php(129) : eval()'d code on line 115


I've enabled the xdebug profiler; in `/etc/php5/cli/php.ini`, entered this line: 

    xdebug.profiler_enable = On

It wrote output to a file called /tmp/cachegrind.out.8721

    sudo apt-get install kcachegrind

No idea what I'm looking at, really, or how it can help in this case. But I like the pretty caller maps and such. I also notice that almost every non-internal function that is called frequently is in a Route.php file...

    211,692  Symfony\Component\Routing\Route->setOptions
    211,692  Symfony\Component\Routing\Route->addOptions
    211,692  Symfony\Component\Routing\Route->addRequirements
    206,028  Symfony\Component\Routing\Route->setOption  
    189,036  Illuminate\Routing\Router->getGroupPrefix  
    120,238  Illuminate\Support\Str::contains 
    106,554  Symfony\Component\Routing\Route->setRequirement
    106,554  Symfony\Component\Routing\Route->sanitizeRequirement
    105,846  Illuminate\Routing\Router->createRoute  
    105,846  Symfony\Component\Routing\Route->__construct
    105,846  Illuminate\Routing\Router->setAttributes  

How does this help me?

> Incl. is the inclusive cost of a function, this means the function itself and all it's including functions. Self is only the cost of the function itself.

My highest non-native 'self' is `Illuminate\Routing\Router->createRoute`
My highest non-native 'incl' is `PHPUnit_TextUI_Command::main`; it's only called once, though.

Not sure what to do...



Thursday, 10 October 2013
================================

I just found an interesting idea:
https://github.com/laravel/framework/issues/1798

> createApplication is called before every test (by virtue of it being called in setUp). This loads the Laravel environment multiple times per TestCase, which is over-kill.

> So, having dug deep in vendor; it appears that this is primarily caused by PHPUnit creating a class instance per test* method.

```php
    < ?php

    require("autoload.php");
    require("start.php");

> Then; phpunit.xml can list bootstrap/testing.php (instead of bootstrap/autoload.php) and app/tests/TestCase.php can include the following code:

```php
    < ?php

    class TestCase extends Illuminate\Foundation\Testing\TestCase {

        /**
         * Creates the application.
         *
         * @return Symfony\Component\HttpKernel\HttpKernelInterface
         */
        public function createApplication()
        {
            global $app;

            $app['env'] = 'testing';

            return $app;
        }
    }
```

> This means Laravel is only loaded once, but the tests can continue to function.

Wow! That makes a huge difference. We now have some errors, but the time and size are dramatically lower:

> Time: 4.43 seconds, Memory: 174.75Mb         // new
> Time: 50.72 seconds, Memory: 682.00Mb        // old
> Time: 2.15 seconds, Memory: 145.75Mb         // new, without xdebug

Errors are in:

1) Kalani\Tests\Common\Models\KalaniObjectTest::testModelIsDefinedInSetupMethod
2) Kalani\Tests\Common\Models\KalaniObjectTest::testModelHasStaticRulesArray
3) Kalani\Tests\KDB\Repositories\AddressTest::testAddressSavesObject
4) Kalani\Tests\KDB\Repositories\AddressTest::testModelIsDefinedInSetupMethod
5) Kalani\Tests\KDB\Models\KDBObjectTest::testGetObject
6) Kalani\Tests\KDB\Models\KDBObjectTest::testModelIsDefinedInSetupMethod
7) Kalani\KDB\Repositories\Tests\AddressesConnectionTest::testFoo

And the errors are consistent. Always one of these:

    Exception: SQLSTATE[42S01]: Base table or view already exists: 1050 Table 'people' already exists (SQL: create table `people` (`id` int unsigned not null auto_increment primary key, `oid` int unsigned not null, `first_name` varchar(20) null, `middle_name` varchar(20) null, `last_name` varchar(30) null, `gender` varchar(1) null, `birthdate` date null) default character set utf8 collate utf8_unicode_ci) (Bindings: array (

KalaniObjectTest extends EloquentModelTestCase
AddressTest extends EloquentModelTestCase
KDBObjectTest extends EloquentModelTestCase
AddressesConnectionTest extends TestCase, but calls $this->seed()

In my migration, createPeopleTable is called second...

Hmmmm....

It's loading the wrong environment; local, instead of test-foo. To get it to load the right environment, I need to set it in the bootstrap file.

And, boom! We're golden.

Made changes to these files:

bootstrap/testing.php:
```php
    < ?php

    $unitTesting = true;
    $testEnvironment = 'test-foo';

    require("autoload.php");
    require("start.php");
```

phpunit.xml:  `bootstrap="bootstrap/testing.php"`

TestCase.php:
```php
    class TestCase extends \Illuminate\Foundation\Testing\TestCase 
    {
        public function createApplication()
        {
            global $app;
            return $app;
        }

        public function tearDown()
        {
            \Mockery::close();
        }

        public function seed($class = Null)
        {
            \Artisan::call('migrate');
            \Artisan::call('db:seed');
        }
```




Friday, 11 October 2013
================================

I'm thinking about radically restructuring my app. Well, a little bit... Instead of having:

/controllers
/database

I think I want:

    /Kalani/KDB/Controllers
               /Database

I don't see down sides to that, except maybe for migrations.

---
Will Request::referrer() work for a cancel button?
No.... deprecated method. Use URL::previous()

...and it doesn't work when we return to a page (eg, for a validation error)

<a href="{{route('objects.show', $item->oid)}}" class="btn btn-default">Cancel</a>

So, we can save it to a session, and refer to it when we actually leave the page. Simple!

How can I test that in codeception?

I'm getting these:

    $I->seeInCurrentUrl('/objects/21/edit');    // passes
    var_dump(URL::current());                   // returns http://localhost
    var_dump(URL::previous());                  // returns http://localhost

Hmmmm....




Saturday, 12 October 2013
================================

It's not working, and it has some other issues, too. One is that, if I come to the page via another method, it will overwrite the 'referrer' value, which leads to some interesting issues. Let's just have all of the 'object' interfaces go back to an 'object' item, or a list of objects. 'PersonInterfaceController' will return to something completely different. And, honestly, at some point, we'll want all of the api objects to be done via ajax, anyway...

This did actually work in codeception, though:

    URL::current and URL::previous not working, so work around
    Session::put('referrer', '/people/1');

Hmmm... I have another problem. For some reason, codeception is saving state between tests.

So are other tests. I'm creating a mock View object; the first time I use it, it works fine. Every subsequent View is ignored. I wonder if it's because I'm using a single instance of App....

Yes, it is. If I use a new instance of App for each test, it uses all of the correct views. So, how can I change the View, using a single instance of App? 

It might not be possible. Objects are bound permanently. But somehow, App::instance works...

Before my first call to \View::shouldRecieve, $this->app('view') looks like this:

    string(32) "Robbo\Presenter\View\Environment"

After it (and for all subsequent calls), it looks like this:

    string(17) "Mockery_123238808"
    string(17) "Mockery_123238808"

I can't use the shortcut, View::shouldReceive('make')... Instead, I have to create a mock, and swap the instance with that mock.

```php
    $mock = \Mockery::mock('Illuminate\View\Environment');

    $mock->shouldReceive('make')->once()
        ->with($expectedViewName)
        ->andReturn($returnValue);

    \View::swap($mock);
    return $mock;
```




Sunday, 13 October 2013
================================

I'm trying to do the same thing with Redirects that I did with Views yesterday. Basically, I want to get the redirect, and I want to make sure the redirected path works...

In my store function, for instance, I create a record, then redirect to the created object:

    return Redirect::route("objects.show", $created->oid)
        ->with('success', 'record created');

The path for this translates to /objects/{oid}

From an ease-of-use perspective, I'd like to use that as the $success route, to see if I have a successful test. But, in the controller, I have to pass in values like ('objects.show', $created->oid); how can I bring those together?

Ahhhhh.... I can pass in this:

    array('objects.show', 5)

And, in my shouldReceiveRedirectRoute, use `withArgs`, instead of `with`.


@dataprovider woes
-------------------
My dataprovider stopped working... 
I'm really not sure why. I recreated the function from scratch (not copying anything from it), and it worked fine. Very strange...

One interesting thing that is happening, in Sublime, is that when I try to comment out a lot of things, it doesn't work at first. For some reason, the docblock for the $updateRecords attribute is uncommenting. I wonder if that's related, somehow... It's doing it for the middle docblock in a set of 3.


Testing weirdness
--------------------
Some of my tests are not being run; I'm not sure why. They look exactly like other tests, which do run correctly. Right. Filename extension has to be .php...

Also, when using a single instance of App, you have to re-set facades when you're done with them, or bad things happen. For instance, I'm mocking a View facade in one series of tests. I didn't reset it when I was done, so the next test doesn't understand what a View is. It should be reset in every case where it might be changed by a test.

Setting these methods:

```php
    abstract class ControllerTestCase extends TestCase 
    {
        private $originalView;
        private $originalRedirect;

        public function setUp()
        {
            parent::setUp();

            $this->originalView = \View::getFacadeRoot();
            $this->originalRedirect = \Redirect::getFacadeRoot();
        }

        public function tearDown()
        {
            parent::tearDown();

            \View::swap($this->originalView);
            \Redirect::swap($this->originalRedirect);
        }
```


