Tuesday, 15 October 2014
===========================
I think I'm figuring out a functional way to test models. I have a test seeder and a production seeder; the test seeder has a short number of seeded values, just for testing.

A model can be broken up into several functional areas:

    * Accessors and Mutators
    * Relationships
    * Scopes
    * Other Utility Methods

It seems to me that (simple) testing can be done this way:

    * Accessors/Mutators:  Create a new object, set values, see results
    * Relationships: Check results from test seeded data
    * Scopes: Check results from test seeded data
    * Utilities: can vary

It would be nice to come up with some work-measurement tests. We have this set of tables; models need to be created for them, repositories, they need seeds, etc.



Sunday, 20 October 2013
==========================
I'm working on a simple test project. Hopefully will be done today or tomorrow. 

I'm having a tough time figuring out how to create a unit test with a layout. In my controller, I can have this:

    $layout = 'default.layout';

In each function, I can do this:

    $this->layout->content = View::make('foo')->with(compact('bar'));

I think I like that syntax better, but I don't know how to do unit tests on it. Functional tests, where I call the route directly, yes... but even those don't respond to things like `$this->assertViewHas`.

There is a way to do it, though:

``php
    public function testHomeReturnsViewFunctional()
    {
        $this->seed();

        \View::composer('site.home', function($view) {
            $this->assertArrayHasKey('repo', $view->getData());
        });

        $response = $this->call('GET', '/');
        $this->assertResponseOk();
    }
```

This was how I was unit testing it, before using layouts:

```php
    public function testHomeReturnsView()
    {
        \View::shouldReceive('make')->once()->with('site.home')
            ->andReturn(\Mockery::self())
            ->shouldReceive('with')->once()->with('repo', \Mockery::any());
        $repo = \Mockery::mock('KBase\Interfaces\SearchInterface');

        $test = new MainController($repo);
        $test->home();
        // $this->assertEquals('foo', $test->home());
    }
```

The nice thing with the latter is that it JUST tests the controller, nothing to do with routes or data...

Still, I want to try out the layout plan for this project... and the controllers really don't have much--I'm sending almost everything to the repository...

Next issue: I'm finding that a relationship attaches fields, but not the associated model. So, in my presenter, I have formatting for a specific field. (PagePresenter has an updated method that will show a human-readable updated date; also a link to the author name). When I load the fields via a relationship (Tags->pages), the presenter isn't activated.

Hmmmm... This is apparently a known issue, but has been fixed. Why aren't I seeing the fix?

Does it have to do with the version of Presenter? Current release version is 1.2.0; I'm using 1.1.0...

What if I modify composer.json, changing this:

    "robclancy/presenter": "1.1.*"

to this:

    "robclancy/presenter": "dev-master"

Yay! That's it!

I do need to have a presenter defined for every class that will use it...

