Monday, 6 January 2014
=================================
I tried loading my daily practice project onto my work computer. It works from there, but is having one weird problem. php artisan generate:template is not working... It was loaded via composer, but (for some reason) it's not spotting my generate: namespace...

I wonder if that's something in a file I'm not loading to github....


If at all possible, I would like to extract data from my production and/or staging database (mysql) to a test database (sqlite). I remember doing something with that, earlier, but didn't write how I did it. Doh! I did write how to go from the full mysql database to a test mysql database, though:

To copy the schema from the old database:

    mysqldump -u [user] -p -d [database] > old_schema.sql

To load the schema into the transition (test) database:

    mysql -u [test_user] -p  [test_database] < old_schema.sql

To copy data from the old database to the transition database:

    insert into [test_database].[table]
    (select *
    from db.[table]
    where db.[table].[field] = [criteria]

To dump the test data:

    mysqldump -u [test_user] -p[test_pw] [test_database] | bzip2 -c > old.sql.bz2



Tuesday, 7 January 2014
=================================
Doh! I tried rebasing my reservation conflict detector off of DEV; it looks like I pretty much lost it all. The prototype code is now just gone.

I can revisit that later. The PROD system has an issue; the notes field is causing problems. 

A newline is being entered in one of the fields. The javascript view sees it, and crashes.

I can fix that in the vehicle reservation model... I'd much rather handle it at a Presenter layer, and for every field. Is there any way to make that happen?

    Does anyone know of a way to automatically format data before it gets sent to a view?

    I am working on a brownfield database that has a few ways to enter data. I would like to make that data work in html for all fields. Right now, it looks like a simple function:

    [code]
    return str_replace(array(PHP_EOL), '<br>', e($this->attributes['notes']));
    [/code]

Actually, that ain't it. It works fine in my DEV environment, but crashes when I go to PROD. DEV is windows, using \r\n line endings. PROD is ubuntu, using \n. str_replace doesn't seem to be working...

nl2br inserts <br>, but leaves the line ending... That's not gonna work...

Ahhh... this works: 

        return str_replace(array("\r\n", "\n", "\r"), '<br>', e($this->attributes['notes']));

One issue: Is there any way to do this for EVERY string control? Every note type? Best suggestion is to use View Presenters... Is there any way to get one to tie in to every field, though?

I'll go back to that later. Right now, let's go back to the conflict detector.

Can I do a soundex query in sqlite? No. Undefined function.

Can I create and seed test tables? Yes. That's not too bad.

Ideally, I'd like to be able to load a tiny bit of data for a test, just what I'm testing for... I can, pretty easily:

The test just includes this:

```php
    public function testConection()
    {
        (new CreateGuestVisitTableForNames)->up();
        (new GuestVisitTableForNamesSeeder)->run();

        $test = $this->test->find(2);
        $this->assertEquals('Koob', $test->last_name);
    }
```

The migration:

```php
    < ?php

    use Illuminate\Database\Migrations\Migration;
    use Illuminate\Database\Schema\Blueprint;


    class CreateGuestVisitTableForNames extends Migration 
    {

        public function up()
        {
            Schema::create('guest_visit', function(Blueprint $table) {
                $table->integer('guest_visit_id');
                $table->string('last_name', 20)->nullable();
                $table->string('first_name', 20)->nullable();
                $table->string('middle_name', 40)->nullable();
            });

        }

        public function down()
        {
            Schema::dropIfExists('guest_visit');
        }

    }
```


The seeder:

```php
    < ?php

    class GuestVisitTableForNamesSeeder extends Seeder
    {

        public function run()
        {
            DB::table('guest_visit')->delete();

            $data = array(
                //  gvid, last, first, middle
                array(1, 'Hatch', 'Joel', 'M'),
                array(2, 'Koob', 'Richard', Null),
            );

            $items = array();
            foreach($data as $item) {
                $items[] = array(
                    'guest_visit_id'   => $item[0],
                    'last_name'        => $item[1],
                    'first_name'       => $item[2],
                    'middle_name'      => $item[3],
                );
            }

            DB::table('guest_visit')->insert($items);
        }
    }
```

I like that, and suspect that I'll be able to test destructive actions with it. Soundex searches don't work, though. For those, I'll have to use mysql. I can use HeidiSQL to copy the schema from the old database to the new database... I can load it with some limited data, and use it to verify read-only queries in test-space.

Even better! It looks like Laravel has a read/write connection space. Yay! ... but I can't figure out how to use it to just ignore/deny writes. OK...

Each model can have a separate database connection. A test can look like this:

```php
    public function testForNameLike()
    {
        $db = DB::connection();
        $this->test->setConnection('test_mysql');

        $this->assertCount(4, $this->test->forNameLike('joel')->get());
        
        $this->test->setConnection($db);
    }
```

I can use HeidiSQL to copy a few selected records from the production database to test_db. There are some relationships, though, so those have to be met:

    insert into test_db.group_visit
    SELECT * from group_visit 
    WHERE group_visit_id in(3705,3823,4074,4027)

    INSERT INTO test_db.guest_visit
    select * from guest_visit
    where soundex(first_name) = soundex('joel')
    and soundex(last_name) = soundex('hatch')

That works. One thing, though... I'll need to come up with test data for every table. It's a lot easier to just query the existing tables. But if I do that, the data will change from time to time. Impossible to get consistent tests. This is a problem that will just increase over time, as new tables get added.

Writing a seeder and in-memory database does work, but it's a pain... And maybe doesn't even work. This gives me stuff I'm not expecting at all. The first two lines create and seed an in-memory table (in the test_memory connection). The $this->test->get()->toArray() gives me exactly what I'd expect, but the following line, $this->test->find(2) searches the default database. It looks like I have to go all in with these, if I want to use them...

```php
    public function testConnection()
    {
        (new CreateTestGuestVisitTableForNames)->up();
        (new TestGuestVisitTableForNamesSeeder)->run();

        $this->test->setConnection('test_memory');
        var_dump($this->test->get()->toArray());

        $test = $this->test->find(2);
        var_dump($test);
    }
```

Of 112 tests (currently), and 134 assertions, my models are making up 98 / 113. 

Can I export my schema to something that could be run by a test? How can I run sql code from a file to put into my database?

Let's try exporting everything to a file...
  ... delete comments
  ... remove KEYs
  ... remove unsigned
  ... replace AUTO_INCREMENT with PRIMARY KEY
  ... delete ON UPDATE CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
  ... delete the last comma before the end paren

  ... and it seems to work??!?! I think so. I can make all of the edits at once in sublime text....
  ... and use my generator to split up the files ...

In just a few minutes, I think I have the entire schema exported from MySQL, and imported into sqlite. Awesome!



Wednesday, 8 January 2014
=================================

I split the schema creators into a bunch of different classes, but what if I handled it differently? What if they were data in an array, and all in one class? I know the old schema isn't going to change... It would be ideal to have seed data there, too, so all of the seeds are in the same location.



Thursday, 9 January 2014
=================================

Working on a tested, production-ready version of the duplicate names detector that I prototyped last week.

Controller->adapter->detector->repository->model



Friday, 10 January 2014
=================================

We're ultimately ending up with a lot of classes for this feature, but I think I now have a good structure.

Controller (implement DuplicateNameListenerInterface):  show, foundNoRecords, foundOneRecord, foundExistingRecord, foundManyRecords
Adapter (very simple; parses input and passes to detector):  detect
Detector (application-level; no framework code): find (searches for names, then sends the results to a listener)
GuestVisitRepository (implement GuestVisitRepositoryInterface; no framework code): forNameLike, forOpenRecords, get
GuestVisit (model, based on Eloquent)

