Monday, 13 January 2014 
===================================================
Working on Javascript reservation grid with kineticjs...

After it's open for a little while, it stops working. I'm getting this error in IE:

    Error: Not enough storage is available to complete this operation.

When I recreate the grid, maybe it's not deleting the old one?



Tuesday, 14 January 2014
====================================================
Classes in javascript tend to confuse me a bit. This seems to be the basic structure:

```js
    (function(){
        SomeGrid = MyGrid.initialize();
    })();

    var MyGrid = {};
    (function(){
        MyGrid = {
            a: 0,
            initialize: function() {
                this.reset();
                return this;
            },
            show: function() {
                return 'foo' + this.a;
            },
            decrement: function() {
                this.a -= 6;
                return 'bar' + this.a;
            },
            reset: function() {
                this.a = 14;
            },
        }
    })();
```

Then, we can call SomeGrid.show(), SomeGrid.decrement(), and SomeGrid.reset(), and everything seems to work as expected.


Let's postpone the reservation grid for a little bit, and work on commissions.



Thursday, 16 January 2014
====================================================
I have a room model; from that, I would like to get JUST the id. I can't get 'id' directly, though, because that's provided via an accessor. Instead, I have to get 'room_id'. I can use the $appends array in my model to show the id field in the array, and $hidden to remove the room_id field. This works well, and can do the same thing for name, category, description, etc. One issue, though: everything that gets appended will show up in the resulting array. Also, I have to do a search for the original name of the field, even if I'll be renaming it later. Any way to fix?



Saturday, 18 January 2014
====================================================
Working on the new grid. It's working well, now, and fast! Next, inserting colors and names. Colors are generated based on the type of object; that will be determined by business logic. The reservations table has a field, reservation_status. Values from 1 to 3. Hmmmm...

It looks like the reservation status refers to the number of people in a shared room.

  3: the room is full 
  0: the room is for one party

How often do we do shared rooms now? Ever???

Maybe. There are a few hundred records in the past two years.

Group hold types are different, though. They are generally null, but can be 0 or 1. All of the new ones are 1's. Old reservations (from 2005) start having 0's... Also, all of the 0's are for group spaces, not individual rooms. I don't think the current database can even make that distinction.

