Monday, 20 January 2014
=================================
I've deployed the new reservation grid. Very nice, but it does consume all of the system's memory if I pull an entire year at a time. Any way to reduce that? It's just sending the client about 600KB of data, so the memory must be used server-side.

Maybe use a raw query, instead of models?

Now, let's include an auth layer. For right now, it can be simple authentication...


Friday, 24 January 2014
=================================
Not having the internet in my hale is proving to be annoying. It completely disrupts my daily practice. It starts to make me wonder, though, if I can run git to and from a thumb drive... Basically, I want to be able to do some things at home, commit them locally and to the thumb drive, then go to work, push the commits to github and my office computer (or pull from the office computer, and push to the server).

`git remote add thumbdrive volumes/thumbdrive`
`git push thumbdrive master`

 On the thumb drive (drive L):

    git clone https://github.com/jijoel/daily.git
    git checkout -b dev origin/dev
    rm daily/.git/hooks/*
    git remote show origin            // shows that everything is tracking properly on the thumb drive

On my work computer (cygwin):

    git remote add flash /cygdrive/l/daily
    git branch --set-upstream master flash/master
    git branch --set-upstream dev flash/dev
    git remote show origin            // shows that my work machine's origin is still good
    git remote show thumb             // shows that I'm connected to the thumb drive
    git pull flash                    // so far, so good

Commit a change to the work computer, then:

    git push flash                      // refusing to update checked-out branch...

Undo...

    rm -rf /cygdrive/l/daily
    git remote rm flash

Hmmm.... Let's try this again. I've now read about bare repositories...

    git clone https://github.com/jijoel/daily.git
    git remote add flash /cygdrive/l/daily.git
    git push flash                    // works!
    git push                          // works! Pushes to origin
    git pull                          // didn't work ... 

    git branch --set-upstream master flash/master
    git branch --set-upstream dev flash/dev
    git branch --set-upstream master origin/master
    git branch --set-upstream dev origin/dev

    git pull             // pulls from origin
    git pull flash dev   // pulls from flash into dev

On home computer:

    git remote add flash /cygdrive/l/daily.git
    