Tuesday, 19 August 2014
=======================
I think we're back up after the hurricane. For the most part. Phones will likely be down for another few weeks to a month. So, it might be a really good time to setup some internal online forms so the off-site office can be referring to the same data that we are.

Question: how to set up ssl?

From https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-create-a-ssl-certificate-on-apache-for-ubuntu-12-04:

    sudo mkdir /etc/apache2/ssl

    sudo openssl req -x509 -nodes -days 365 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout /etc/apache2/ssl/apache.key -out /etc/apache2/ssl/apache.crt

    answer some questions...

Easy enough. But when I try to go to the sites-available directory, I'm a little stuck. On DreamHost, it doesn't seem to be there...

Ahhh... DreamHost has a "Secure Hosting" option under domains. It handles it directly from the panel. And we can get a professionally-signed certificate for $15/year. I'm not sure what the difference is between that and a $399/year Symantec professionally-signed certificate... It's a massive price difference, though.

From Symantec's site:

    Where the use of open source is lacking is around full-on market credibility, and the perception of trust for the end user. Does OpenSSL carry the same weight of a certificate that has been issued by a trusted CA (certificate authority)? The answer is not in commercial or financial applications.

Hmmm... That doesn't sound particularly compelling. I'll look into it more later. For right now, I think what I have will work.

(note: the Symantec certificate does include daily malware scanning on the site--that looks pretty interesting...)

In laravel, to force the browser to use https:

    Route::get('foo', ['https', function(){
        return 'this is a https page';
    }]);

If I don't use https, I get an error message. If I do, I get a warning that it's not secure (but it does work). I think the warning will likely go away when we get a DreamHost-signed certificate (or Symantec certificate).

