Wednesday, 27 August 2014
=========================

I just read something that may help with the random logout issue. Apparently, the Laravel file session driver does not perform locking, so it creates a race condition on ajax requests, image file downloads, and so on. The recommendation is to switch to a different type of session.

https://github.com/laravel/framework/issues/4400

Let's use a cookie-based session driver, and test it out...

... I haven't been able to get the login screen since making the change. I think this might be the fix.

I put it in the live database; asking everybody to tell me if they ever see the weird login screen.


---
I just found out about a self-hosted project management application. It looks pretty cool, and has a lot of features that I think I could use. Can I incorporate it? It has:

    * Projects
    * Tasks
    * Timesheets
    * Calendar
    * To-Dos
    * Reports

http://92fiveapp.com/

... and it's available on github. 

https://github.com/chintanbanugaria/92five



Thursday, 28 August 2014
=========================
I've just figured out that you can freshen an old feature branch (something you can't even load due to file conflicts) by creating a new feature branch off DEV, and merging the old feature branch with that.

    git checkout dev
    git checkout -b feature/new-datestrip
    git merge feature/datestrip
    git branch -d feature/datestrip
    git branch -m feature/datestrip

This seems to be the functional equivalent of rebasing, but a lot less troublesome for a pretty old branch.


