Tuesday, 30 September 2014
==========================

The next report I'm creating needs to have breadcrumbs. Basically, there are a couple of different paths to get to a given form. I'd like to be able to go to any of the calling forms at any time. We want to do this, via one path:

    / home / bookstore / vendor payouts / inventory activity / sale details

And we want to do this (via another path):

    / home / bookstore / sales / sale details

Looking around, I see a couple of different packages that do breadcrumbs:

    https://github.com/davejamesmiller/laravel-breadcrumbs
    https://github.com/CreITive/Laravel-4-Breadcrumbs

It looks like the former is more active, but the latter seems to describe exactly what I want to do. So, I'll try that.

It's not exactly what I had in mind, though. I can click on vendor payouts, but when I click on a particular vendor (and get the inventory activity report), it never hits the vendor payouts report, so it doesn't show up. Hmmm....

Other things to do. I'll revisit this one later.



Wednesday, 1 October 2014
==========================
I want to get gross sales for a vendor. To do that, I need to run a query for all of the events that have happened with items that are supplied by that vendor. How do I do that in Laravel?

```php
    public function events()
    {
        return $this->hasManyThrough(
            'GiftShopInventoryEventLog',
            'GiftShopInventory',
            'vendor_id',
            'barcode_id'
        );
    }
```

The GiftShopInventoryEventLog has an inDateRange method, so my first thought is to use this:

```php
    public function getGrossSalesAttribute()
    {
        return $this->events
            ->inDateRange($this->getQueryDate())
            ->sum('price');
    }
```

No dice. I'm getting a collection object, which doesn't have an inDateRange function.

This works, though:

```php
    public function getGrossSalesAttribute()
    {
        return $this->events()
            ->inDateRange($this->getQueryDate())
            ->sum('price');
    }
```

... because then, it's part of the query.



Tuesday, 2 October 2014
==========================
Back to breadcrumbs...

What if, in each of my report controllers, I were to store the path in a session flash variable? Then, look up the whole list of values, and format as appropriate, to include in the report.

One problem that I can see, right now, is that I'm not calling the parent constructor in any of my derived report classes. That was an error, and will have to be corrected throughout the system. Doh!

From a controller, how can I tell what was called?

    Request::url()

I'm wondering if what I'm trying to do is completely weird. It's not exactly a breadcrumb; more a group of "back" buttons that is shown on the page.

    vendor payouts / inventory activity / sale details

And we want to do this (via another path):

    sales / sale details

... and both of them could theoretically be running side-by-side in two different windows. I could see adding session data, but how do I have it for one window, versus another?

I can use URL::previous() to find the previous url; maybe work off that? How do I cut it into pieces?

    var_dump(parse_url(URL::previous()));

    array (size=4)
      'scheme' => string 'http' (length=4)
      'host' => string 'kdb.dev' (length=7)
      'path' => string '/bookstore/vendor-inventory-activity' (length=36)
      'query' => string 'vendor=13&start=2014-09-01&end=2014-09-30' (length=41)

If we go directly to a page, we have no path. Starting from a page, we can start a breadcrumb trail...

But what if I hit a page from two different directions, and go to a page beyond that? How will it know which one to attach to?

Maybe include a hidden field in each form? It could include a pointer to the session variable to use... But if the user doesn't submit a form, and just clicks through the page defaults, the form doesn't get submitted, so we don't get the field...

There's an attempt at http://www.phpclasses.org/browse/file/26820.html, but it doesn't seem to take these things into consideration.

There are tracking breadcrumbs, and hierarchical breadcrumbs; pretty much everything that I've seen does the latter.  I want the former.

https://www.dokuwiki.org/ has tracking breadcrumbs, but doesn't limit them to one window (eg, one chain). It just lists everything the user has accessed.

Hmmmm... HTTP is inherently stateless. Sessions (and cookies) enable me to keep track of state for a given user. Is there any way at all to track state by browser window?

There's an interesting discussion here:
https://myfaces.apache.org/orchestra/myfaces-orchestra-core/multiwindow.html

Could I do it client side? Send a window ID to the server, and get results back via ajax? Once I have an ID for a window, can I keep it somehow?

In Javascript, I can create an id for a window:

```js
    if (!window.name) {
        window.name = Math.random();
    }
```

It retains that ID until it's reset in some way. 

window.localStorage['foo']  also seems to stay through navigation

Hmmmm... interesting article at http://diveintohtml5.info/storage.html

Nice. It even seems to work in IE. Now, can I keep details with that? Also, it's saved as a string (ONLY). Can we json encode/decode?

Yes.

    window.localStorage['test'] = JSON.stringify({'first':'foo','second':'bar'});
    JSON.parse(window.localStorage['test']).first;

So, what does this mean for breadcrumbs?

I can get the path with window.location.pathname, and the full url with document.URL. 

    Get the current window location
    If it's on the list, remove all items lower than it in the list
    If it's not on the list, add it to the end of the list
    Render all of the items on the list

Hmmm... It works, but it looks like window.localStorage is global, across all windows. I'd need to get the id for the specific window...

So, this is ugly, but does work. I'd imagine that someone who actually knows javascript could make it pretty...

```js
    // Set a unique name for the current window (if needed)
    if (!window.name) {
        window.name = Math.random();
    }

    // If we don't have the index and links for this window, add them
    if (! window.localStorage[window.name+'breadcrumbIndex'])
        window.localStorage[window.name+'breadcrumbIndex'] = '[]';
    if (! window.localStorage[window.name+'breadcrumbLinks'])
        window.localStorage[window.name+'breadcrumbLinks'] = '{}';

    // Parse the crumbs and links
    crumbs = JSON.parse(window.localStorage[window.name+'breadcrumbIndex']);
    links = JSON.parse(window.localStorage[window.name+'breadcrumbLinks']);
    crumb = window.location.pathname;

    // Search for the current page in the list of crumbs
    // if found, remove everything after it
    // if not found, add it
    pos = $.inArray(crumb, crumbs);
    if (pos != -1) {
        while (pos+1 < crumbs.length) {
            console.log(crumbs[pos+1]);
            links[crumbs[pos+1]] = "";
            crumbs.splice(pos+1,1);
        }
    }
    else { 
        crumbs.push(crumb);
        lastPart = crumb.split("/").pop();
        links[crumb] = {
            name: lastPart.replace(/-/g, ' '),
            url: document.URL,
        };
    }

    // write the new crumbs to local storage
    window.localStorage[window.name+'breadcrumbIndex'] = JSON.stringify(crumbs);
    window.localStorage[window.name+'breadcrumbLinks'] = JSON.stringify(links);

    // Generate the output string
    output = '';
    Object.keys(links).forEach(function(key){
        if (links[key] && key != crumb) { 
            output += ' / <a href="' + links[key].url + '">'
                + links[key].name + '</a>';
        }
    });
    $('#breadcrumbs').html(output);
```

