Sunday, 7 December 2014 
========================

Trying to get linux working. My desktop is crashing on boot; might it have something to do with the nvidia drivers? 

    sudo apt-get remove nvidia*

Removing:

    nvidia-331 nvidia-331-uvm nvidia-opencl-icd-331 nvidia-prime nvidia-settings

Running startx, I see that there is a fatal error -- no screens found. In the log file, it looks like it can't find module "nvidia", which makes sense, because I just removed it.

I found some instructions at http://jiakaizhang.com/fix-frozen-after-login-in-ubuntu-14-04/. I'm running 14.10, but maybe they'll work. 

    sudo apt-get install --reinstall ubuntu-desktop

Umm... except I'm running kubuntu, not ubuntu. Undo that....

    sudo apt-get install nvidia-current
    
Let's see if that will work. 

No. I'm now seeing an API mismatch: The NVIDIA kernel module has version 331.89, but this is 304.123; they should match.

Running `lspci | grep VGA`, I see that my card is an NVIDIA GF119 (GeForce GT 610).

Let's reinstall nvidia-331...

startx crashes the system. Takes me to a blank screen, in which nothing works. Hard reboot (in text mode)...

Or, can we download the latest from nvidia?

    http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html

Did that, and installed everything. Still geting a black screen when I run `startx`. Also when I run `sudo service lightdm start`. When I get the black screen, all I can do is hard reboot into text mode. (in grub, press `e`, then edit the linux line from `quiet splash` to `text`; ctrl+x to boot.

In Xorg.0.log, I see the last couple of lines are errors. These occur immediately after the line NVIDIA(0): Setting mode "DFP-0:nvidia-auto-select,DFP-1:nvidia-auto-select"

Hmmmm.... I tried removing nvidia-331, and just using the latest that I downloaded. That seems to give me nothing at all. I can't even boot into text mode, any more. Ouch!

Hmmmm... I didn't actually install much on that machine before it went bad. Maybe just start over? And do NOT install the 3rd party drivers? Everything seemed to be working before I installed them...

So far, so good...

It takes it a few seconds after the grub screen to show anything -- the machine looks dead for a minute; then, it works fine.

