Thursday, 19 February 2015
===========================
Something strange happened with my Laravel installation today. It suddenly stopped working. How did I break it??? I'm not able to isolate exactly what I did that caused it, but trying to figure it out now...

I was just getting a "Whoops, looks like something went wrong." message. In vendor/laravel/src/Illuminate/Foundation/start.php, changing error_reporting(-1) to 0, so I can see the actual error...

object(ReflectionException)[51]
  'message' => 'Class encrypter does not exist'
  'file' => 'vendor/laravel/framework/src/Illuminate/Container/Container.php'
  'line' => 504

In Container->make, it looks like it gets a lot of abstract names. Usually, it just returns the instance. There are some things that aren't in the instances array, so it gets a concrete name for them. These include:

	events
	exception
	exception.plain
	exception.debug
	whoops
	encrypter

Everything except for encrypter seem to work fine. It's looking in $this->bindings. Where does it get those?

In Illuminate/Foundation/Application.php, there is a method called registerCoreContainerAliases. It lists several, including encrypter. That doesn't seem to be it, though, because I can comment everything out, and still get the same error, in the same place.

It doesn't look like the encryption service provider is being registered before it is called.

The application registers base service providers in the constructor. These include exceptions, routing, and events. encrypter would be the first non-base service provider to load.

If I comment out the line, though, then cookie is the first non-base service provider to load, and it fails the same way.

It does run the alias loader before it reaches that, though...

but `$config['aliases']` is null (in Foundation/start.php). Why would that be? 

Big question, but I need to get some work done today. Hmmmm.... What if I were to install a fresh version of Laravel 4.2, and see the differences in areas that I can control?

That worked fine. Can't really see a problem.

What if I were to roll everything back to master, and re-start from there?

No dice. So strange...

What if I were to pull a new version from github, and re-start from there?

Back to a running state... It'll take a few minutes to set up npm, bower, and gulp...

	npm install
	bin/bower install
	bin/gulp bower

... and now we're fully functional again, and running with Laravel 4.2. Now, let's reload things from other branches...

Wild... I tried copying some files from the corrupt version, and it killed my fully functional version.

	rsync -aR `git diff --name-only master` ../www/

Hmmmm.... That's very interesting. Why would it do that? Will it do it every time? These are some things to explore, later.


