Wednesday, 25 March 2015
========================
Today, I'm experimenting a bit with documentation.

I find that I can create API documentation with [PHPDocumentor](http://phpdoc.org/). This will read through all of the docblocks in the code, and generate documentation for it. To do this, I need a file in the root of my project folder:

    phpdoc.dist.xml 
    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
    <phpdoc>
        <title>ProjectTitle</title>

        <parser>
            <target>../docs/api</target>
            <encoding>utf8</encoding>        
            <markers>
                <item>TODO</item>
                <item>FIXME</item>
            </markers>
        </parser>

        <transformer>
            <target>../docs/api</target>
        </transformer>

        <transformations>
            <template name="clean" />
        </transformations>

        <files>
            <directory>src</directory>
        </files>

    </phpdoc>

This is assuming a directory structure of:

    /Project
        /www  - web root 
        /docs - documentation 

The www and docs folders EACH contain a git repository. To create the docs folder, I used:

    git clone http://github.com/user/project.git docs

Then 

    cd docs
    git checkout --orphan gh-pages
    git rm -rf *                          // remove all non-git files

(Or, if the page is created via github...)

    cd docs
    git checkout -b gh-pages origin/gh-pages
    git reset HEAD .
    git clean -f -d

I also cleaned up the git branches (I don't want to accidentally use master when in documentation):

    git branch -d master
    git push origin myfeature:myfeature 
    git branch --set-upstream gh-pages origin/gh-pages

To generate the api documentation, I can just go into the www folder, and run `phpdoc`. 

I do have to manually generate it each time, though, and push up both the www folder and the docs folder separately. I'm not sure how to ensure that they are kept in sync...

---
I've also figured out how to keep code coverage to JUST my source files. As an added bonus, it runs much faster, as well. In phpunit.xml, include:

    <filter>
      <whitelist processUncoveredFilesFromWhitelist="true">
        <directory suffix=".php">./src/</directory>
        <exclude>
          <directory suffix=".php">./src/database/</directory>
        </exclude>
      </whitelist>
    </filter>

---
I can also get phpunit to run every time I save one of my project files. To do that, load gulp (via npm).

    package.json:
    {
      "devDependencies": {
        "gulp": "^3.8.11",
        "gulp-phpunit": "^0.8.1",
        "gulp-plumber": "^1.0.0"
      }
    }

    gulpfile.js:
    var gulp = require('gulp');
    var phpunit = require('gulp-phpunit'); 
    var plumber = require('gulp-plumber');

    gulp.task('phpunit', function() {
        gulp.src('phpunit.xml')
            .pipe(plumber())
            .pipe(phpunit('phpunit'))
            .pipe(plumber.stop());
    });

    gulp.task('watch', function () {
        gulp.watch(['src/*.php','tests/*.php'], ['phpunit']);
    });

    // What tasks does running gulp trigger?
    gulp.task('default', ['phpunit']);

To have gulp watch the project, and run phpunit any time something has changed:

    npm install
    gulp watch



Friday, 27 March 2015
========================
I'm thinking about the usefulness of my LocalStripe package. It downloads Stripe data, and writes it to local tables so that it can be used later (eg, for analyzing, reporting, etc). I think that I may have taken a wrong turn on using it to POST stripe data, though. 

I'm basically putting a layer of mud on top of a clean, modern interface. What if I just matched the interface, as much as can?

    $customer = $stripe->customer->create(params);
    $card = $customer->sources->create(params);
    $card->update(params);
    $charge = $stripe->charge->create(['customer'=>$customer->id,'source'=>$card->id, ...]);

I'm thinking that, for all of these things, LocalStripe should:

    * Create an object on Stripe
    * Use that object to create a local object (or local objects)

For charges to customers, it should also write to a local stripe_pending_charges table (in case of internet outages).

What would it take to make that happen? I think I'd need some sort of synchronization object...

    $stripe->customer could return a customer synchronizer...
    $customer->sources could return a source synchronizer...

A synchronization object would be responsible for posting data to Stripe, and for creating a local record. Properties requested of the synchronization object would be picked up from the local record (if possible), or fetched from Stripe.

    $customer = $stripe->customer->find($id);

Return a synchronization object, based on a LocalStripe customer object. If the LocalStripe customer object is not found, download the object from Stripe (or throw an error). Maybe cache a list of ids that have been searched for, but can no longer be found, so we don't go to Stripe for things we know are not available? Also, should the synchronizer be responsible for parameter conversion (eg, 'refunded' => ($remote->refunded == 'true')) ????

    $refund = $stripe->refund->find($id);

LocalStripe doesn't include refunds (yet), so this would download an object from Stripe (after checking the cache), and return a generic synchronization object with data based on a Stripe::Refund object.

Hmmm.... lots to think about...

---
I'm also starting to play with Laravel 5, a little bit.

Trying to load the LocalStripe stuff into a Laravel 5 project.

The Service Provider should include this so that we can publish the migration (I'm not sure if we can migrate without it...):

    public function boot()
    {
        $this->publishes([
            __DIR__.'/database/migrations' => $this->app->databasePath().'/migrations',
        ]);
    }

I'm not sure how to get the schema builder in the migration so that it can work in BOTH laravel and non-laravel applications. To have it work for non-Laravel apps, this works great:

    public function __construct()
    {
        $this->schema = Capsule::schema();
    }

    public function up()
    {
        $this->schema->create('foo', function(Blueprint $table) {
            $table->string('id', 32)->primaryKey();
            ...
        });
    }

It doesn't work in Laravel apps, though. Every migration that I've seen in Laravel uses:

    public function up()
    {
        Schema::create('foo', function(Blueprint $table) {
            $table->string('id', 32)->primaryKey();
            ...
        });
    }

I don't seem to be able to inject an instance of the schema builder into the constructor. How can I refer to it?

Hmmmm....

    public function __construct()
    {
        if (is_callable('app'))
            $this->schema = app('db')->connection()->getSchemaBuilder();
        else
            $this->schema = Capsule::schema();
    }

