Tuesday, 5 May 2015
===================
I'm starting to think about how to split up an API from a UI... The API should deliver data, and work on the data; the UI should deliver views that work with the data.

For an API, we'd definitely want RESTFUL controllers. The Laravel controller methods useful for an API would be:

    index       // return all items that match criteria
    store       // store a new item
    show        // get a single item
    update      // store an update to an item
    destroy     // remove an item

These would return JSON data.

UI controllers would return views in these methods:

    index       // page to show when an index is requested; draws data from API/index
    show        // page to show when a single item is requested; data from API/show
    create      // page to show to create a new item
    edit        // page to show to edit an item 

I'm starting to think that just returning the data directly in the views is not the right approach. We can return a UI view, which then pulls in the data via the API.

    GET /pages                          | pages.index        | PagesController@index
    GET /pages/create                   | pages.create       | PagesController@create
    POST /pages                         | pages.store        | PagesController@store
    GET /pages/{pages}                  | pages.show         | PagesController@show
    GET /pages/{pages}/edit             | pages.edit         | PagesController@edit
    PUT /pages/{pages}                  | pages.update       | PagesController@update
    PATCH /pages/{pages}                |                    | PagesController@update
    DELETE /pages/{pages}               | pages.destroy      | PagesController@destroy
    GET /pages/{pages}/tags             | pages.tags.index   | TagsController@index
    GET /pages/{pages}/tags/create      | pages.tags.create  | TagsController@create
    POST /pages/{pages}/tags            | pages.tags.store   | TagsController@store
    GET /pages/{pages}/tags/{tags}      | pages.tags.show    | TagsController@show
    GET /pages/{pages}/tags/{tags}/edit | pages.tags.edit    | TagsController@edit
    PUT /pages/{pages}/tags/{tags}      | pages.tags.update  | TagsController@update
    PATCH /pages/{pages}/tags/{tags}    |                    | TagsController@update
    DELETE /pages/{pages}/tags/{tags}   | pages.tags.destroy | TagsController@destroy

How can that work? The UI would have default values to pull in from the API. It can call for more at any time, in any way.

To set a refund, it would be nice to POST to /payments/{paymentId}/refunds, where everything would be processed.

Likewise, for card management, wouldn't it be nice to just send an UPDATE to /staff/{staffId}/cards/{cardId} to make it the default? or a DELETE to the same endpoint to remove it? Would it work for different users?

    /guests/{guestId}/cards/{cardId}
    /groups/{groupId}/cards/{cardId}
    /staff/{staffId}/cards/{cardId}

If we're using StaffController@update for all of those, how do we know who the actual owner would be? I'm using the last4 as the cardId, instead of a full id (which really doesn't need to be seen in the front-end)

I suspect that the real answer is that splitting things up between guests, groups, and staff is a design flaw, that we should use /customers/{customerId}/cards/{cardId} to limit that, but I'm really not sure. If we can have notes about a variety of objects, wouldn't we want /object-types/{objectId}/notes as an endpoint? How does that translate to a controller?

Hmmm.... Or, we could just have different controllers for each...

NotesController for just the notes
StaffNotesController for staff notes
GuestNotesController for guest notes
...etc...

They'd all (basically) be the same thing, and all inherit from the same base class, but have a different `protected function getOwner()` method to load the owning object.

Using RESTful controllers, where would filtering happen? Most likely directly in a repository...



Friday, 8 May 2015
===================
Today, I'm playing with a new testbed for things. This is my first real dig into using Laravel 5. Also trying out a few things with it:

    Codeception (with phpbuiltinserver)
    Caffeinated Modules (with composer-merge-plugin)

Trying to use a view from a caffeinated module... I see that the service provider is automatically loaded. 

Views need namespacing. So, `return view('day001::day001');`

Not really sure how to include tests... 

Maybe just create a Tests folder in the module? In phpunit, I can include them like so:

    <testsuite name="Module Test Suite">
        <directory>./app/Modules/*/Tests</directory>
    </testsuite>



Sunday, 10 May 2015
====================
I've finally started playing with Vagrant.

    https://dl.bintray.com/mitchellh/vagrant/vagrant_1.7.2_x86_64.deb
    sudo dpkg -i vagrant_1.7.2_x86_64.deb
    vagrant box add laravel/homestead

Hmmmm... given the current network speed, it will take about 5 hours to download that. Time to work with something else.

Let's play with some service providers and translation stuff in Laravel 5.

When registering a new service provider, a call to `$this->app['translator']` returns:

    Class translator does not exist

Right... Move it from register() to boot() in the service provider. It's still not working, though. In my service provider, I have this:

    $this->loadTranslationsFrom(
//        __DIR__.'/../../lang', 'modules'
        __DIR__.'/../../lang/en/modules.php', 'modules'
    );

In my function call, I have:

    return $this->info(trans('modules::foo'));

I'm still not getting it... The file definitely exists. 

I'm referring to them incorrectly. I need:

    return $this->info(trans('modules::modules.foo'));


