Tuesday, 12 May 2015
====================
I just found something interesting about paginators. I'm running a paginated AJAX query:

    return $this->groups
        ->where('group_visit_id', 'like', $filter .'%')
        ->paginate(10, ['group_visit_id as id','group_name as text']);

What I want is id and text, but I'm consistently getting Null for id. In my GroupVisit class, id is defined as:

    class GroupVisit extends BaseModel
    {
        public function getIdAttribute()
        {
            return $this->group_visit_id;
        }
    }

Hmmm.... the paginator needs `group_visit_id as id` to return the id field, but id is overridden...

There are a couple of ways to handle this. One is to pass in the group_visit_id to the paginator:

    return $this->groups
        ->where('group_visit_id', 'like', $filter .'%')
        ->paginate(10, ['group_visit_id as id','group_visit_id','group_name as text']);

The other is to check to see if the class already has an id...

    public function getIdAttribute($id=null)
    {
        return $id ?: $this->group_visit_id;
    }


Wednesday, 13 May 2015
=======================

Another tricky eloquent query. I can do this, no problem:

    public function getActualReservationCountAttribute()
    {
        return $this->reservations()
            ->whereNotNull('reservations.guest_visit_id')
            ->count();
    }

Ideally, I'd like to use my reservations object for everything having to do with reservations, though. I have this function there:

    public function scopeForGuests($query)
    {
        return $query->whereNotNull('reservations.guest_visit_id');
    }

How can I call that function from my main query? I was hoping for:

    return $this->reservations()->forGuests()->count();

... and it looks like that works. Not so tricky, after all. :-)



