Friday, 29 May 2015
===================
I'm having a bit of trouble getting coveralls to work on my new playground project. 

Maybe create a .coveralls.yml file?

    src_dir: app

Let's see if that works...

It does, but it's also looking through everything in my vendor directory. That's really not needed. Can I exclude it?

Yes, put it in a blacklist. In phpunit.xml:

    <!-- Add a filter to make sure we don't count venders and Tests in the coverage report -->
    <filter>
        <blacklist>
            <directory>./vendor</directory>
            <directory>./tests</directory>
        </blacklist>
    </filter>

I've also included VersionEye to check for dependencies. There's one issue with that, though... One of my dependencies (codeception) includes this in it's composer.json:

    "guzzlehttp/guzzle": "~4.0|~5.0",

According to VersionEye, the current version of guzzle is 6.0.1. I can submit a pull request for codeception; can I override it in the meantime?

What would happen if I were to enter this into my composer.json?

    "guzzlehttp/guzzle": "~6.0",

I got an (expected) error: "Your requirements could not be resolved to an installable set of packages."

    "guzzlehttp/guzzle": "~6.0 as ~5.0",

Hmmm... no.

This seems to work in composer.json:

    "guzzlehttp/guzzle": "6.0.x-dev as 5.0.99",

It causes failures when running codeception, though:

    Class 'GuzzleHttp\Url' not found 

... which means that codeception will have to go through a bit of a rewrite before it uses the new version. Can I just hide it from the VersionEye report, and pass with this known issue?

Hmmm... I can hide it from the VersionEye report, but it still shows up as a dependency that needs to be updated. And there's no way to update it until codeception is updated... I think I'm just SOL...

