Wednesday, 1 July 2015
======================
I'm having some trouble installing a package in a new installation of Laravel 5.1... In composer.json:

    "require-dev": {
        ...
        "nwidart/db-exporter": "1.0"
    },

Getting:

Your requirements could not be resolved to an installable set of packages.

  Problem 1
    - Conclusion: remove laravel/framework v5.1.4
    - Conclusion: don't install laravel/framework v5.1.4
    - Conclusion: don't install laravel/framework v5.1.3
    - Conclusion: don't install laravel/framework v5.1.2
    - Conclusion: don't install laravel/framework v5.1.1
    - nwidart/db-exporter 1.0 requires illuminate/support ~4 -> satisfiable by illuminate/support[v4.0.0, v4.0.1, v4.0.10, v4.0.2, v4.0.3, v4.0.4, v4.0.5, v4.0.6, v4.0.7, v4.0.8, v4.0.9, v4.1.0, v4.1.1, v4.1.10, v4.1.11, v4.1.12, v4.1.13, v4.1.14, v4.1.15, v4.1.16, v4.1.17, v4.1.18, v4.1.19, v4.1.2, v4.1.20, v4.1.21, v4.1.22, v4.1.23, v4.1.24, v4.1.25, v4.1.26, v4.1.27, v4.1.28, v4.1.29, v4.1.3, v4.1.30, v4.1.4, v4.1.5, v4.1.6, v4.1.7, v4.1.8, v4.1.9, v4.2.1, v4.2.12, v4.2.16, v4.2.17, v4.2.2, v4.2.3, v4.2.4, v4.2.5, v4.2.6, v4.2.7, v4.2.8, v4.2.9].

I forked it; how can I use my own?

I can set this:

    "repositories": [
        {
            "type": "vcs",
            "url": "https://github.com/jijoel/DbExporter"
        }
    ],

It still doesn't work, though... Probably because I'm importing version 1.0. Let's try dev-master... 

    "require-dev": {
        ...
        "nwidart/db-exporter": "dev-master"
    },

That works for my repository... and for the original. No fork needed.

I'm having some challenges actually using it in Laravel 5.1, though:

    php artisan

    [BadMethodCallException]
    Call to undefined method [package]

Let's comment out the boot function... `php artisan` now works.

    php artisan dbe:migrations

    [Symfony\Component\Debug\Exception\FatalErrorException]  
    Class 'Str' not found

Let's set up an alias to the Str class...

    'Str'       => Illuminate\Support\Str::class,

... and now it works. Yay!

It doesn't like 'bit' data types. We just get a `$table->('name')` whenever those occur. It also uses the names in the database for each index, but not the fields for the index. I may have to do those manually. 

And, when I'm using the current timestamp for a field, it's not happy. This was automatically generated:

    $table->timestamp('update_date')->default('CURRENT_TIMESTAMP');

This works, though:

    $table->timestamp('update_date')->default(DB::raw('CURRENT_TIMESTAMP'));

Checking the original tables, it should actually be:

    $table->timestamp('update_date')->default(DB::raw("CURRENT_TIMESTAMP ON UPDATE CURRENT_TIMESTAMP"));

Hmmm... the generator also screws up on non-numeric primary keys. In some cases, I want to enter the key manually...

Some manual stuff...


I want to set up homestead...

    vagrant box add laravel/homestead

That's not really going to work, though, because I have a slow, and unstable connection. I started the process; it returned an error:

    box: Downloading: https://vagrantcloud.com/laravel/boxes/homestead/versions/0.2.7/providers/virtualbox.box
    
    An error occurred while downloading the remote file. The error
    message, if any, is reproduced below. Please fix this error and try
    again.

    SSL read: error:00000000:lib(0):func(0):reason(0), errno 104

Let's try wget:

    wget https://atlas.hashicorp.com/laravel/boxes/homestead/versions/0.2.7/providers/virtualbox.box

It'll be about 3 hours; it can be continued if the connection goes down. Once that is done, I can use:

    vagrant box add laravel/homestead <path/to/downloaded/file>

I installed the homestead command-line tool:

    composer global require "laravel/homestead"

... and put a symlink in my ~/bin directory to ../.composer/vendor/bin/homestead.

